1
THAT WEEK IN MARCH ON the STIRT desk got me the summer internship. When
I turned up everyone already knew who I was: I was the kid who’d bought
everyone a burger. That little stunt let everybody know Caleb wanted me, and
since Caleb wanted me, everyone wanted me. The Credit Trading desk made
a big push for me, and that made Caleb want me even more. All this was in
spite of, or, perhaps more accurately, with completely no regard for, the fact
that I still had absolutely no idea what anyone was doing. I suppose this could
be referred to as a “speculative bubble,” and if you sit and think about it for
long enough, you can learn something about how bitcoin works.
The through line was there; I could see it. I could smell every step of the
way. I’d already smashed up my end-of-year exams. Now I was gonna savage
the summer internship. From there, I’d get oﬀered a full-time job, which I’d
start one year later, after I ﬁnished uni. I’d hit that, become the best trader in
the world, and, at some point, a millionaire. There were a few details from my
plan that were missing, like the fact I didn’t know how to trade, but I was
fucked if I was gonna let that stop me. I killed that whole year on a scream.
That summer I got my head down and focused on winning all the
internship competitions. There were three “trading competitions” and I won
all of them. They all had little tricks to them which you could exploit, if you
ﬁgured them out. They were games in the end. There was a public speaking
competition and I won that too. I don’t really know what to tell you about that
one. I guess I was just a really competitive kid.Matic had also snagged an internship at Citi. He must have networked
someone at the trading game ﬁnal. He was good like that. He spent the whole
internship totally fucked up on coﬀee and caﬀeine pills on one of those super-
high-tech-futuristic-massive-spreadsheet-million-formula desks known as
“Credit Structuring.” At that time they were the Gods of the World. Matic
barely went home the whole internship. He’d spend the whole day on
Microsoft Excel buzzing his tits oﬀ, and at night he’d sleep under the desk.
He used to set an alarm for like 5 a.m. so that he’d wake up before anybody
got in, and no one would know that he’d been in all night. At the end of the
internship, Citi oﬀered him a full-time job, but he turned it down to go do a
Computer Science Master’s at Cambridge. Then, the next summer, he came
back to intern again. Some people are just crazy, I guess.
In the evenings, when everyone had gone home, I used to go over and sit
with Matic while he was doing his spreadsheets. He was a big, strong guy, but
his hands used to shake, just a little, on his mouse and his keyboard, and his
tired eyes were darting around.
During one of those conversations, I asked Matic what he thought I should
do with my newfound popularity.
Matic’s views were clear: “Don’t work on the STIRT desk.” He referred to
the traders as “anachronisms” who were “stuck in the eighties.” I didn’t really
care about shit like that, but Matic’s next point was more troubling:
“FX traders don’t make any money.”
“FX” stands for “Foreign Exchange,” and even though STIRT stood for
“Short Term Interest Rates Trading,” it sits in the Foreign Exchange
department for some reason. The general consensus over on the genius-credit-
trader side of the trading ﬂoor was that FX traders were idiots, and that their
roles would soon be taken over by computers. There was no future. They
literally used to refer to the FX traders as “monkeys,” a nickname which the
FX traders gleefully co-opted for themselves. More dangerous and cutting
than all of this though, was the damning indictment that they were poor. That
was the only bit that worried me.
In spite of that though, and for reasons which I honestly probably couldn’t
tell you, I think at that stage I’d already made up my mind.I used to leave Matic a Red Bull, or a coﬀee, after those conversations.
Then I’d fuck oﬀ and he’d sleep on the ﬂoor.
—
Obviously, I got oﬀered a full-time place on the Citi grad scheme at the end
of the internship—that goes without saying—and the STIRT boys kept a
close eye on me when I had to go back to LSE to ﬁnish oﬀ my ﬁnal year. To a
man, each one of them believed that they would have been a professional
sportsman were it not for some unfortunate teenage injury, or otherwise cruel
twist of fate, and my introduction had ﬁnally given them access to the
numbers needed for a regular football game: no matter how many we were
short, I could always pull some kids up from the street back in Ilford who’d be
up for a free game and a couple of beers. Football meant that I was seeing
most of the STIRT guys every week. The best players were Hongo and,
bizarrely, little Scouse Billy, scampering about with his little round belly. You
always knew when Rupert was behind you when you were playing. You could
hear him growling in your ear.
Caleb and Rupert kept an especially close eye on me, and a series of
overtures were made over the course of the year. At the time, I assumed they
were coordinated, and it was only sometime later that I realized the two men
had hated each other, and they were more like competitive bids.
Rupert got me and some kids from the street to paint his ﬂat in Clapham.
Now I’m not no painter or anything, but he oﬀered to pay us £100 each every
day. He paid it to me in £50 notes and I couldn’t spend them anywhere. I
tried to buy some moisturizer from Boots with three consecutive ﬁfties and in
the end I gave up and went home. Rupert’s ﬂat was fucking enormous. It was
three ﬂoors with an entire cinema ﬂoor at the bottom. The whole ﬂat didn’t
have any doors except for the bathrooms. Everywhere else it was rotating
walls. He wanted us to paint the ﬂat white, even though it was already white.
Whatever. It’s his money, I thought.
It must have been about April when Caleb called me in and sat me down
in a little glass-walled oﬃce with a view of all the other little glass-walledoﬃces in the other buildings, over on the other side of the quay.
When you get a job oﬀer from a big investment bank nowadays, you don’t
actually know what role you’re gonna get. You have to do this big “graduate
scheme” training/rotation program, where they teach you some nonsense that
nobody cares about in some classrooms up on the top ﬂoor, and then you
spend literally a year and a half rotating around diﬀerent desks on the trading
ﬂoor hoping someone will give you a job.
Caleb didn’t want me to do that. He wanted me to start straight on the
desk. Now I don’t know if he knew that I knew that the desk wasn’t a top
prospect, but he made me two clear oﬀers. Number one: I could start
whenever I wanted. Number two: I could start trading from day one. That
meant a line on the proﬁt-and-loss spreadsheet, with a clear number next to
my name. That’s how people get paid, you know. Clear money, next to your
name. And it usually takes years to get that.
Maybe that’s why I chose the STIRT desk, despite all of the things Matic
told me. Maybe somewhere back then in my boyish, twenty-one-year-old
overconﬁdence, I knew that if they gave me a line on the proﬁt-and-loss
spreadsheet, within years it would be the biggest in the bank. It would have
been a correct premonition. Or maybe it wasn’t that. Maybe it was Billy’s
Scouse accent and JB’s rugby stories. Maybe it was Rupert’s cinema room and
his rotating walls. Or maybe it was just the way Caleb looked at me, in that
little glass box that bright April afternoon, with that huge smile, and the way
his eyes glittered, like the water, that I could see through the window, in the
quay.
—
My last exam at LSE was “MA303: Chaos in Dynamical Systems.” It was on
June 26, 2008, which was a Thursday. I told Caleb I’d start on the Monday.
I’d need the weekend to buy trousers and shirts.
After Caleb spoke to me, Hobbs took me to LA and Las Vegas. One of
the traders there got a nosebleed in a limousine on the way to Carmen
Electra’s birthday party and I thought that maybe it was because of thealtitude or something so I oﬀered him a tissue. He didn’t take it. I was
wearing a gray waistcoat from H&M that cost £20.
I was supposed to be studying for my exams.
—
So there was me. Twenty-one years old with all my hair freshly shaved oﬀ
and a new pair of pointy shoes from Topman. Walking onto the trading ﬂoor
on June 30, 2008, as the youngest trader in the whole City, just four days
after my last uni exam. I don’t know why I shaved all my hair oﬀ. It just felt
like the right thing to do.
I always remember that after my ﬁrst one-week internship, a year and a
half earlier, I had gathered together all the business cards that I had collected
and sent everyone a personalized thank-you email. In those emails, among
other things, I had included a request for any advice or suggested reading
material that might help me in my nascent career.
One scary-eyed-looking middle-aged Englishman named Clarky had sent
me a short, curt reply. All it had said was:
It was nice to meet you, Gary . Don’t rush onto the trading floor . Takeyour time, see the
world, enjoy your youth. Once you get in, you’ll never get out.
All the best,
Clarky
Well, I hadn’t listened to Clarky. Looking at it now, it seems like much
smarter advice than it did at the time. Why didn’t I take it?
If I try to put myself back into the shoes of me as a twenty-one-year-old,
all I can tell you is this: I was hungry. Probably I’d been hungry for a long
time. Sleeping on broken mattresses will do that to you. Do you know what I
mean? Do you?
If you were gonna rob a bank, and you saw the vault door there, left open,
what would you do? Would you wait around?
Besides, how you gonna see the world with no money?
Fuck it man, it was my time to shine.—
I knew from day one things were gonna be diﬀerent. This was no longer just
“impress the boys—buy some burgers—get a job.” There’s a proﬁt-and-loss
line next to my name now. That’s my money. Money for me.
So what do we do? There’s a double-pronged plan of attack.
1. Learn to trade.
2. Get a book.
Simple plan, right? What’s a book?
Well, the way the STIRT desk works is that everyone’s a trader for FX
swaps. If you don’t know what an FX swap is, don’t worry. At this stage I
didn’t really know either. All you need to know is, you can trade an FX swap
in every currency, and the STIRT desk ran ten currencies—Euros (EUR),
British pounds (GBP), Swiss francs (CHF), the three Scandinavian currencies
(SEK, NOK, DKK), Japanese yen (JPY) and the Australian, New Zealand
and Canadian dollars (AUD, NZD, CAD), all of which were traded against
the mighty US dollar (USD).
Each trader gets responsibility for one or more currencies. So, as you
know, Rupert was the senior trader for euros, a “book” that he shared with
Ho Nguyen. Bill ran the British pound book. Caleb ran the book for the Swiss
franc, and JB ran the Ozzie (AUD), Kiwi (NZD) and yen (JPY).
So what’s the big deal with a book?
The big deal with a book is, when you run a book in a currency, all the
customers and all the trades in that currency come directly to you. Why’s that
good?
Well, remember what we learned from the trading game. Anyone can ask
anyone for a price at any time, and that person has to make a price with a
“two-point-spread.” For example, 67–69, meaning “I will buy at 67 or I will
sell at 69.” Now imagine there’s a bunch of outside customers in that game
who are willing to trade on a bigger spread: for example, the four-point
spread 66–70, meaning “I will buy at 66 or I will sell at 70.” That’s a little bithow real markets work. If that were to happen, then you could, say, buy from
those outside customers at 66, and then immediately turn around and sell
what you bought for 67, securing an immediate and guaranteed proﬁt of 1. If
you were willing to hold on to the risk for a little bit longer, you might even
ﬁnd someone willing to pay 68 or 69, potentially doubling or trebling your
proﬁt. That’s what “getting a book” means. It means access to customers who
are willing to trade at worse than market prices, and that means nearly
guaranteed proﬁt for you—which, I probably don’t need to tell you, is a very
good thing. (This, by the way, if you think about it, is exactly what Thomas
Cook are doing to you on your foreign exchange money, every time you go on
holiday.)
You might be asking yourself at this point, why are customers willing to
trade at worse than market prices? That would be a very good question, and it
is one that I, at twenty-one years old, didn’t think to ask. But don’t worry
about that. Give it time.
For now, how to get a book.
Well, the ﬂip side of all that free money is that once you have a book you
need to be available to make prices at any time. You never know when
someone is going to need an FX swap in Swiss francs or Australian dollars or
whatever the fuck book that you trade is. And Citibank oﬀers a 24-hour
pricing service (there are also desks in New York, Sydney and Tokyo) so if
you are taking a piss or are in Las Vegas, someone needs to be making that
price. That’s why everyone on the desk had an allotted partner whose job was
to make the price if they, for whatever reason, were oﬀ the desk or otherwise
incapacitated (some traders were incapacitated more often than others, as
we’ll see).
This role is known as “cover trader,” and it’s an important job. If you are
oﬀ the desk, and the cover trader quotes a price in your currency, that trade
still goes in your book, not his, and the proﬁt (or loss) goes to you. As such,
as a junior trader, cover trading was a very important role. You could make
(or lose) money for the senior traders on the desk. You could prove your
ability as a price-making trader. You could basically stake your claim for a
book of your own. If you could prove you were an adequate or even a veryproﬁtable cover trader, the senior traders would be ﬁghting to have you
covering them when they were away. This would immediately make it clear to
everyone that you were rightfully next in line for a book, and perhaps even
serve as a reminder to the bossmen that the tired-looking, graying trader in
the corner maybe didn’t need to be running three whole books to himself.
But when you’re green, no one wants you as cover. You’re a risk. You’re a
liability. You ﬁrst have to win someone’s trust. And this is where the two
goals coalesce. Win someone’s trust, prove to them that you’re a good cover
trader, and then, hopefully, they’ll teach you to trade.
OK, so once more we need a mark. Let’s analyze our options here.
First choice, that’s an easy one: Billy. Bill has already established himself
in my eyes as a bit of a legend and has been oﬃcially accredited by Snoopy
(whose opinion I respect) as being the smartest trader on the desk. Not only
that, but he’s British, he’s short, and he’s not a posh dickhead. So really, we’ve
got a lot in common. That could work. Only problem is, as soon as I turn up
on the desk, I see that Snoopy’s moved over into that corner and is deﬁnitely
claiming that space. Snoopy’s got like a year and a half experience and
seniority over me. That’s gonna be a hard one to get.
The next two obvious options are Rupert and JB. I’ve made an impression
on both of these guys and they both seem like they’d be keen to work with
me. I could probably get in with either, but there are problems as well. The
most obvious being that they both seem kind of insane. JB ﬁrst. JB is a lovely
guy, there is no doubt about it, and by now I’ve heard all of his stories and
had more than a few beers with the guy. I was on this desk for ﬁve weeks on
the summer internship, remember. The problem is he speaks at a million
miles an hour and I don’t understand a word that he says about trading or
anything else. He might not be the best spiritual guide. Not only that but
some young-ish Frankenstein-looking trader seems to have been brought over
from New York and he’s sitting right next to JB. So that spot could be taken
as well.
Now that leaves Rupert. The positives are kind of obvious here. Number
one the dude took me to Las Vegas. Number two, I’ve painted his bedroom.
That seems like a good basis for a friendship, am I right? Rupert splits theeuro book with Hongo, but Hong is already in his thirties and there seems to
be a space for a junior. He’s the senior euro rates trader, which is the biggest
trading role on the desk, so he must be a good trader, and he seems to have a
sensible, disciplined trading style that could be a good basis from which to
learn. On the debit side he is maybe a psychopath. I’ve spent enough time
with him by this point to know that that deﬁnitely is a risk. But nobody’s
perfect, you know?
There was also Caleb, of course. There was always Caleb. But come on,
Caleb is the bossman. We can’t do that—I ain’t no teacher’s pet.
So I settled on Rupert. Or should I say, Rupert settled on me.
See with Snoopy moved over into Billy’s corner down by the window, I got
put into Snoopy’s old seat, far from the window, half spilling out into the
aisle. From there I was a bit separated from most of the traders by the empty
station to my left. I don’t know why they kept this station permanently empty.
Maybe it was as a physical reminder to me, and previously to Snoopy, that the
desk junior should know their place. To the left of that empty space was
Rupert, who spent the entire ﬁrst half of my ﬁrst day completely ignoring me.
I didn’t get to lunch that day until about 2 p.m., and when I came back
Rupert had moved himself into the empty swivel chair next to mine, and was
swinging it about from side to side. That worried me, but I tried to pretend as
if nothing was up. I sat down and looked straight forward into my screens, but
both of his huge round knees were pointing straight into me, so it was hard to
pretend he wasn’t there.
“Where have you been?”
I turned to him as if this was all nonchalant and normal. He was squeezing
the fuck out of a neon-orange stress ball.
“Oh, I just went to get lunch?”
“What did you eat?” Rupert responded kind of too quickly before I’d
managed to get my question mark out.
“Erm, it was like…sausage and…beans and…tomato?”
“Where did you get that?”
“Erm…I got it from the canteen, downstairs.”Rupert did that thing again where he was just silent and looking at me for
way too long, and it would have been awkward for everyone in the situation,
except it was only just me and him there.
“I’ve worked on this desk for twelve years. And I’ve never even once gone
to that canteen. We eat. On. The desk.”
Then he just kept on looking at me for ages, and I didn’t really know what
to say.
You know, only just two months before this, me and Rupert had been
standing by a swimming pool on a warm and dark evening, at Jay-Z’s
afterparty, in LA. And Rupert had been asking a pretty girl in a yellow bikini
what her Chinese zodiac sign was. Rupert was a tiger, by the way. So was I.
I can’t remember what the girl was.
OK, I thought. So that’s how it’s gonna be, yeah?
No problem.
—
This was not an isolated incident. In my ﬁrst few days, during which I spent
most of my time trying to install software programs on my computer and
talking to a guy named Jimmy John in Bangalore on the phone, Rupert
picked up a habit of grabbing me suddenly, ﬁrmly, and directly from behind
by both shoulders and shouting things out like
“WHAT IS UK CONSUMER CONFIDENCE???”
Or
“WHAT’S THE US SERVICES PMI??”
I knew the correct answer of course was “I don’t know.” But horribly
unfortunately, that turned out to no longer be an adequate reply.
“That’s not good enough anymore Gary! You’re a trader now! You have to
know!”
This was distressing for a couple of reasons. Firstly, the “I don’t know”
strategy had been so phenomenally successful throughout my internship that
parting with it felt like losing a leg; and, secondly, I didn’t even really know
what PMI stood for. Three-letter acronyms have always been a weakness ofmine. At one point, physically grabbed and raised from my seat during
another long-distance phone call, I, in my panic, hazarded another strategy
and hastily shouted something like
“Forty-seven point one!”
As a guess.
The response to this could fairly have been described as no less than
righteous fury, and, given that the number shouted was both incorrect and
made up (never a good combination at the best of times) I suppose, even in
hindsight, that was probably fair.
For the sake of my nervous system, I did two things.
The ﬁrst thing was, I snuck over to Snoopy and asked him what the fuck a
PMI was and how I was supposed to know its exact number on any given day.
Snoopy showed me an “Economic Release Calendar,” which is a full list of
all the economic data released, all over the world, on every single day, and the
exact time of the release. The amount of data points on any given day is
enormous, often more than ﬁfty or sixty, although they are generally released
all at the same time for any given country, which means that there would
normally only be three or four signiﬁcant times in each day when data would
come out. From then on, every day, the ﬁrst thing I would do every morning
was check the times of all the data releases and set a load of alarms on my
little Nokia mobile phone for ﬁve minutes before. After that, I never got a
number wrong, and after a couple of weeks Rupert stopped grabbing me.
That was a relief. I never stopped setting those alarms though, every single
weekday, for three whole years after that. By then I didn’t give a fuck about
data releases, and no one would have dared grab me anyway.
You know, that was a long time ago, but still, sometimes, even now when
I’m at my laptop and I’m not concentrating, I ﬁnd I’ve opened that calendar
up. Today, on the day that I am writing this, UK Inputs Producer Price
Inﬂation came out at 7 a.m. It was 22.6 pe rcent. That’s pretty high.
The second thing I did was, I decided, that if there were any other option,
any option at all, I wouldn’t be learning to trade from Rupert Hobhouse.
2
SO THAT’S HOW I ENDED up with Spengler.
Theodore Barnaby Spengler III was, for want of a better word, an idiot.
That’s probably not fair, to be honest. He was more of an idiot savant.
Spengler had not been my ﬁrst choice as a mentor. He had not been my
second and he’d not been third.
Once I’d decided that I was going to escape Rupert, I’d tried to see if there
was any chance with Bill. I managed to convince him to let me manually
input some of his trades into the computer systems, but I messed one up in
my ﬁrst week of doing it which led to him screaming “You cost me forty
FUCKING grand you fucking TWAT!” halfway across the ﬂoor.
Forty fucking grand was twice my dad’s salary. So it was somewhat with
my tail between my legs that I fell back to my ﬁnal safe haven and, just like I
had done on my very ﬁrst day on the desk, rolled my swivel chair over next to
JB.
But there was a new presence next to JB now, the oversized, Frankenstein-
headed frame of Theodore Spengler.
Theodore Spengler looked exactly like Herman Munster, from the
Munsters, and I’d noticed his gurning, bobbing head bouncing next to JB’s the
ﬁrst moment I’d stepped back on the desk as a full-time hire. The previous
winter Caleb had ﬁred three traders. I assumed that Spengler must have been
some kind of up-and-coming star brought in to replace those guys.
I quickly realized this wasn’t the case.What had actually happened was that Spengler had been hired by the New
York STIRT desk from the US graduate scheme about a year previously, but
they had quickly recognized this as a grave error of judgment and had
somehow convinced Caleb to take him oﬀ of their hands. What Caleb
received in return for that cursed gift, I will never know, but I do hope it was
something good.
What was so bad about the boy?
Spengler was a huge, lumbering presence with the body shape of a muﬃn,
who walked like a farmer falling over. He would cascade onto the desk every
morning at exactly 7:29 a.m., which was precisely one minute before being
oﬃcially late. Upon falling into his seat, he would invariably ﬂip up one of the
little switches on his speakerbox and call out to one of his brokers. The
broker’s name was always a normal name with a y on the end, so he would
shout out something like
“Hey Granty!” or “Hey Millsy!” or “Hey Johnathany!”
In some sort of completely incomprehensible accent, because he was from
Johannesburg or Cape Town, or somewhere like that.
And the broker, who for some reason would half the time himself be from
Essex or East London, would inevitably reply with something along the lines
of:
“Hey Spengler! How you doing you old rogue/you big charmer/you
maniac, last night was wild, wasn’t it! Were you all right getting home?”
In one of my very ﬁrst mornings sitting with Spengler, it turned out that he
had not, in fact, been all right getting home, but had actually pissed himself in
a taxi. I know this because he told this to his broker quite openly, quite
gleefully in fact. The broker himself seemed to ﬁnd it hilarious, which I found
surprising, because to me it seemed pretty disgusting. JB cast a look over his
shoulder at Spengler which told me I was not the only one feeling that way.
I can’t remember which broker it was that Spengler told this story to. I
think it was Granty. But it doesn’t really matter, because Spengler then ﬂicked
up every single one of his switches, one at a time, and told the same story, in
identical words, to seven diﬀerent brokers. Every single broker laughed
hilariously, even the three Danish brokers, all of whom were called Carsten.The whole process took about thirty minutes. This is how I learned that
brokers are paid to laugh.
Public stories of poor personal hygiene were not Spengler’s only
peccadillo. He compulsively, constantly, endlessly regaled me with terrible
jokes. Inappropriate jokes, unacceptable jokes, and JB would scold him every
time. That did absolutely nothing to slow down the boy, who seemed only to
revel in scorn. Every single time JB upbraided him, the boy’s pained gurn
would stretch at the seams, and something would rise in those dull eyes: a
sparkle, a glitter, a smile.
The jokes were sometimes anti-Semitic. A deeply unwise move for a
South African giant sitting no more than three meters from a Jewish boss
with the power to determine his pay. He once made one of these jokes while
Caleb was walking behind him, and Caleb ﬁrmly grabbed the back of his
swivel chair and instantly spun him 180 degrees. Caleb said nothing but
stared down at the boy, and the boy looked up at the face of the man who was
only three years older than he was and he looked deep into his eyes, and his
mouth seemed to be trying to form words but he said nothing and then in the
end his lips stopped moving altogether. He looked like he was going to start
sucking his thumb. They stood like that for about ﬁfteen seconds before
Caleb sighed deeply and turned Spengler’s chair back around and walked oﬀ
muttering.
“Think about what the fuck you are doing you fucking retard.”
Spengler would scratch his arse endlessly and swallow down burgers at
troubling speed. More than that though, what I most remember, are
Spengler’s phone calls with his mum. Once a day, at 3 p.m. precisely, the
boy’s mother’s phone call would come through. They would speak for exactly
an hour, inexplicably, in Flemish. I’m still grateful that I don’t speak Flemish,
even now, to this very day.
The maddest thing of all was, I quite liked the boy.
Why?
Probably because he was a fucking good trader.
—I’d been sitting with Spengler and JB for about a week and a half when
Rupert turned around and dropped a meaty hand on my shoulder and said:
“You’re coming for lunch today with me and the brokers.”
I’d met brokers before. There’d been brokers in Vegas. There’d been
brokers on the ski trip. But I’d never been on a broker lunch before. And it
had never just been me, and Rupert, and the brokers.
We took a black cab into the center of the city, even though a train would
have been quicker. Rupert ﬁlled his seat amply, looking forward, as the car
edged through traﬃc, and I perched on one of those little fold-out chairs that
look backward.
I must have seemed nervous, because Rupert literally asked me, out of
nowhere:
“Are you nervous?”
I told him that I was ﬁne, and then he asked me if I’d ever eaten Japanese
food before. I replied, honestly, that I hadn’t. Then he asked me,
“Is it because you’ve never used chopsticks?”
And for the ﬁrst time that I had ever seen it in him, an expression crossed
his face of what seemed to me to be a genuine kind of brotherly, or fatherly,
concern.
He placed his brown, expensive-looking bag down on the ﬂoor of the taxi,
and he pulled out two pens.
“Look,” he said to me. “You place your little ﬁnger and your ring ﬁnger
like this.” And he squashed his two fat ﬁngers together and he showed me.
“This creates a little crease between the two ﬁngers, here, you see? And
you can place the ﬁrst stick into that cradle, like this, and then you can hold it
there with the base of your thumb.”
And he did that with one of the pens.
“That leaves the tip of your thumb and your other two ﬁngers free to hold
the other stick,” he said, ﬂexing his ﬁngers, “and then you can use the two
sticks to pick things up.”
And he used the tips of the two pens to pinch the ﬂesh of my left hand.
“Here,” he gave the pens to me. “You try.”And I tried to do it and I dropped both the pens to the ﬂoor, and Rupert
smiled.
Rupert didn’t know it, but the actual reason for my anxiety was that I had
no idea how much the restaurant was going to cost. It had had some kind of
obscure Japanese name that I didn’t know how to spell, so I hadn’t been able
to Google the prices, although I suspect that that might not have helped.
Before leaving, I’d gone to the cashpoint, and withdrawn £200 from my bank
account, because that was my daily limit for withdrawal, and added it to the
£40 that had already been in my wallet. I was worried it wouldn’t be enough.
I picked the two pens up oﬀ the ground and returned them to Rupert.
Rupert put them back into his bag and he leaned back into the seat of the
taxi, exhaling deeply and spreading his arms out wide across the backs of the
seats.
“Don’t worry about the brokers,” he said to me, “they’re only brokers. If
they weren’t brokers, they’d be bus drivers.”
I still hold chopsticks that way to this day.
—
So what is a broker?
People sometimes use the terms “broker” and “trader” interchangeably. In
fact, they are quite diﬀerent worlds. This was obvious to me even at this
point, because it seemed almost all of the brokers were from Essex or East
London, despite the fact that on the trading ﬂoor, which was conspicuously in
East London, there were no such accents to be found.
In fact, as Rupert had expressed so succinctly, the diﬀerences were more
than linguistic. By 2008, it was almost impossible to get onto a trading ﬂoor
without a degree from an “elite” university. Even on the STIRT desk, every
single trader had one, including me, with the single exception of Bill. Most
brokers hadn’t been to university at all.
It is the cockney voices of the brokers that bounce out of the speakerboxes
on the desk. Their dulcet tones endlessly sing numbers in a back-to-back
rhythm that in some ways harks back to fruit and veg street markets.Strawberries, pound a pound, three-month euros, 4.3 4.6. It’s been nearly ten
years now since I’ve worked on a trading ﬂoor in London, and I wonder if
those musical voices are still so cockney. I hope they are, but I fear that
they’re not.
The brokers don’t work for the banks. They work for these cartels called
“brokerages” and their job is, technically, to make connections between
traders. The traders make the deals, and the brokers just match them
together. That’s important: the brokers don’t carry any risk if the trades go
bad, only the traders do. The brokers are kind of like estate agents. They get
paid on commission, which means that they always want you to do more and
more trades, regardless of whether the trades are good or bad.
Theoretically, the brokers allow you to buy something without tipping oﬀ
your opposition to the fact that you wanna buy. This can be useful if you’re a
big player, like Citibank, and you wanna buy without moving the market. The
theory is, if you wanna buy something at, say, 36, you tell your broker, and he
starts shouting “36 bid 36 bid 36 bid” down every speakerbox in the City, and
hopefully he ﬁnds someone who wants to sell there. The deal can happen
without anyone ever knowing that you, speciﬁcally, wanted to buy, and that’s
good, because if everybody knows you’re a buyer then they might push the
price up before you can buy.
That’s the theory though. What’s the reality?
Well the reality…is they do broker lunches.
—
Back in the cab with Rupert, we eventually pulled up at some fancy restaurant
in Central London. I’d love to tell you the name of the place, but I have truly
no idea what it was.
What I can tell you is that it was a Japanese restaurant, and that an
immaculate hostess in an immaculate outﬁt greeted us immaculately in a
small but impeccable reception area that was far too dark for that time of
day. Somewhat dazzled by all the perfection, I was led up some stairs, or it
could have been down some stairs, and into a vast dining room area that wassimultaneously both ﬂooded with light from huge windows and, internally,
curiously dark, due to the fact that all of the furniture was black.
It was not yet midday and the tables—which were huge, jet-black,
perfectly round, alien-looking things—were almost all totally empty. The
hostess walked us through the great and spacious dining area for quite some
time and then round a corner formed by a wall of glass bottles. This led us
into a secluded area where the largest and blackest of all the tables stood
bathed in sunlight right next to a ﬂoor-to-ceiling window which cast a harsh
angled light onto the faces of three brokers, who sat, huddled together on the
table’s far side.
Our entrance dissolved the huddle in an instant, and the three brokers
stood up at the same time and all of them rushed to shake both our hands.
I took my measure of the three. There was a young one: brutish, confused-
looking. A middle-aged one, seductive and serpentine. And an older one,
whose hair was thick and a pure white, and who must have been at least sixty
years old, and who looked as if his head had never stopped growing a day in
his life.
That one, the one with the big head, introduced himself to me in an
impossibly deep voice:
“Hi, my name’s Bighead.”
The h, of course, isn’t pronounced.
A dance ensued in which the ﬁve of us tried to seat ourselves around the
enormous circular table in a way which did not seem awkward. It was
diﬃcult, and I found myself separated from Rupert by some distance, round
the other side of the table, next to Bighead, which I liked because his deep
cockney accent and his thick shock of impossibly white hair and the pure size
of his head all reminded me of my dead grandad and put me at ease, and it
also meant that I was not next to Rupert. The conversation all ﬂowed, like a
river, in one direction, from the brokers toward Rupert, and I liked that as
well, for it meant that I didn’t have to say anything, and I had a lot of time to
observe.
Although Bighead was the eldest, he did not lead the conversation. That
was done by the middle-aged trader, whose name was Timothy Twinehamand whose own hair was also thick but impossibly black. The conversation
was perfectly smooth. It was like honey. And there was never a break or a
pause. Sometimes gaps were left intentionally, for dramatic eﬀect, and
Bighead would ﬁll them with his contrabass voice. The young broker, who
was seated between Timothy and Rupert, said nothing. He simply swung his
face back and forth between the two as if it were a tennis match, endlessly
nodding, enthusiastically, and occasionally rocking that face backward for a
cackling laugh.
When the young broker did that, I laughed too, but more gently. Rupert
never laughed.
White wine was served, and a very large platter of sashimi. I did not, at
that time, know what sashimi was. It is basically sushi without rice. Rupert
explained to me (with some diﬃculty, for there was really quite some distance
between us) that sashimi is better for one’s health than sushi, and that eating it
can keep the weight oﬀ. I looked at the size of the platter, and I looked at the
size of Rupert. I nodded quite deeply. I reached some distance into the
middle of the table and stabbed a small, pinkish-white piece of ﬁsh with an
immaculate chopstick and tried to balance it over to my plate.
The white wine was being drunk quickly, and I was drinking it too, even
though I don’t really like wine, because I didn’t want to make a faux pas.
There was an anonymous kind of deep bassy music playing in the background
that I have since found to be almost ubiquitous in expensive London
restaurants, and after a time, the music and the wine and the conversation
started to coalesce into one, and I started to ﬁnd that I could barely hear the
actual words that anyone was saying at all. It didn’t matter because I didn’t
have to say anything. All I had to do was lean earnestly forward, into the
table, and look deeply at whoever was talking, and look oﬀ into the distance
sometimes and nod. I tried to use the chopstick technique that Rupert had
taught me, and I dropped three pieces of ﬁsh onto the table and one piece of
ﬁsh onto the ﬂoor.
It was quite some time before the second course arrived, and I had been
awaiting it quite eagerly because I was already starting to get quite drunk bythen, and I had encountered some technical problems with the ﬁrst course,
which were largely that it was slippery and quite far away.
Unfortunately, the second course was no more straightforward, for what
came to the table was an extremely large plate of nothing but raw chicken and
raw beef. Now, you probably know that raw chicken is inedible, or, at least,
not safely edible, and I did also suspect that as well. But until just an hour or
so previously I had held a similarly strong conviction about raw ﬁsh and that
had clearly turned out to be wrong. I waited a few minutes to see what others
were doing, but they were deeply embroiled in a conversation about the
Morgan Stanley Senior Euro Dealer, and eventually I had to relent. I reached
out and picked up a piece of raw chicken between two sticks and was, for the
ﬁrst time, able to get it, unsullied, to my plate. I ate it. It was quite disgusting.
The disgustingness was suﬃcient for me to question this Japanese
convention and I leaned over to Bighead, with whom I was rapidly developing
an unspoken, grand-paternal bond, and nudged him gently under the table.
He turned and leaned over to me, conspiratorially.
“This chicken,” I said to him, under my breath, “don’t you think it’s…A
little…Disgusting??”
Bighead, who had himself drunk quite some wine, looked at me
quizzically. Then he looked at the large platter of beef and chicken then he
turned and looked at me again.
“Did you eat some of that chicken?” He was looking quite bemused.
“Yeah, of course I ate it, it’s fucking chicken. What the fuck else am I
supposed to do to it?”
And my new grandad laughed deeply and loudly and he stood up and he
removed a part of the surface of the table and would you believe there was a
whole fucking grill under there and nobody had told me, and he didn’t stop
laughing for ages and nobody really quite understood why because he didn’t
tell anyone that I’d just ate some raw chicken and, to be honest, I was grateful
for that.
At the end of that lunch, two hours after its beginning, nobody paid.
Well, somebody must have paid, but I didn’t see anyone pay. All I knew
for sure was that it wasn’t me. And nobody asked me to pay.And then all of us, who were by then quite well drunk, went back to our
oﬃces and did work.
And I didn’t really know what that meant.
—
Once Rupert had taken me out, that popped the cork for Spengler.
See, the thing about Spengler was, Spengler was lonely. People don’t talk
to their mums on the phone in Flemish for one hour every day at work unless
they’re lonely. If you’ve got someone at your workplace doing that, you
should check in and make sure they’re OK. Spengler was a long way from his
mum and a long way from his hometown and he didn’t know how to make
friends.
But if you’re a trader at a big London investment bank, in some ways you
don’t need to make friends. For there are some people who are paid to be
friends with you and those people are the brokers. And now, also, for
Spengler, there was me. And Spengler was happy about that.
So it was only two days after my ﬁrst lunch with Rupert that Spengler took
me for a lunch of his own. Snoopy had to cover the Scandinavian currencies
(that was Spengler’s job, the Scandinavian currencies), and me and Spengler
went oﬀ in another cab, this time to eat steaks.
In the cab, Spengler didn’t teach me how to eat steaks (although to be
honest I probably could have beneﬁted from that). Instead, he gave me a
detailed lowdown of the three brokers and one trader who I would be
meeting, and the signiﬁcance they played in the Swedish Krona Foreign
Exchange Swap markets. That’s all Spengler ever talked about when it was
just me and him together: Swedish Foreign Exchange Swap Markets and the
people who were in them. I wouldn’t have asked for anything else. We would
be meeting:
1. Granty: swarthy, middle-aged, charming, head of Swedish FX swaps
broking.2. Jonesy: bald, signiﬁcantly older, self-deprecating, shouldn’t really be
doing this anymore but he’s on his third divorce.
3. Bushead: Young, Scouse, Swedish FX broker. Once again named for the
size and the color of his head.
4. Simon Chang: Young, up-and-coming Swedish FX trader for HSBC.
Very smart and has enormous calves. From Hong Kong. Everyone calls
him Jet Li, but it’s OK because he doesn’t mind.
It was of no signiﬁcance to anyone that not a single person at this lunch was
Swedish. Less than eighteen months after this I would myself be made senior
Swedish FX swap dealer having not spent a single day in Sweden in my life.
The steak restaurant was deep in the City of London, at the end of a
number of meandering alleyways, and the dining room itself was, upon
entering, set cavernously deep into the ground. Not a trace of sunlight entered
the large room and, whilst I’m sure it must have had electric lighting, that
lighting was suﬃciently dim and atmospheric that in my memory the place
was lit by candles, which lent an air of surrealism and conspiracy to a meal
eaten in the middle of the day.
As we approached the table I saw the four men sitting together and started
to match their heads to the descriptions I’d been given. In particular, I
recognized the red, bulbous head of Bushead, who, unbeknownst to Spengler,
had been with me and Rupert in Vegas.
No sooner had I noticed the brokers, than the brokers noticed us too, and,
at the moment they saw Spengler walking to their table, they stood up and
began cheering and jeering, and wailing and clapping and going wild. I had
not been expecting them to do that—Spengler didn’t normally get that kind of
reception in the oﬃce—and I turned round to Spengler in confusion, and I
saw that the boy was gurning an enormous smile that looked ﬁt to crack that
Frankensteinish face of his, and I saw that beneath that, he was starting to
blush.
—A few things happened at that meal with Spengler.
The ﬁrst was that Bushead, who had spent three days with me in Las
Vegas, never once mentioned, to anyone, that he knew me.
I knew Bushead, and I liked him. You could even say I knew him quite
well. I had once seen him, very drunk at three in the morning outside a
nightclub in Los Angeles, gesture to Lindsay Lohan’s girlfriend, via a winding
movement of his right hand, that he wanted her to roll down her car window,
and then, upon receiving her somewhat generous acquiescence, thank her by
shouting, “Your car’s fucking shit mate!” Right into her face, before
proceeding to piss in a bush.
He had honestly had no idea who she was; he had simply just disliked her
car.
I had felt that that had been a bonding experience between us,
compounded by the fact that we were from similar backgrounds, but the
moment I sat down Bushead gave me a look and I immediately knew what it
meant. That was then, and this is now. And I instinctively knew he was right.
Spengler’s riotous reception led into a solid ten minutes of aggressive
ribbing and cussing and Spengler squirmed and smiled and giggled
throughout it and turned his face down like a young blushing bride. He loved
it. You could tell.
Once that was over, they got to the real talk. Swedish Foreign Exchange
Swaps and red wine. Spengler was a ﬁend for the both of them. I’ve never
seen any man consume more of either.
Spengler and Simon Chang were machines. They were heavy. Once you
got them started talking about FX Swaps, the conversation never slowed
down. At this stage, I still didn’t really know what an FX swap was, and I
wasn’t in the conversation. But I sat across the table and stared at them, and I
watched the passion, the love, in their eyes. They wanted to know if the three
days at the end of September were particularly cheap due to a mispricing, or
whether it was that Ingmar at Handelsbank Stockholm perhaps knew
something that they didn’t know. They wanted to know if the Riksbank were
having another dinner in October and, if so, which traders were going. Whatabout Anders at DNB Copenhagen? How was his alcoholism going? How
were things between him and his wife?
They were ﬁends, they wanted to know everything. And while I
understood almost nothing of what they were saying, I wanted to know
everything too, just like them, and I watched and I watched and I listened and
listened and as the time passed and the plates were brought over and taken
away and as bottle after bottle of red wine continued to ﬂow, I started to
think to myself that perhaps that seat that I’d fallen into, behind JB’s left
shoulder, and behind Spengler’s right, was perhaps not such a bad seat after
all.
I’d said nothing, almost this whole time. I’d not needed to. The madness of
Spengler and Simon had ﬁlled up the space. I had, at ﬁrst, intended to drink
the wine at the same pace that Spengler did, but having seen the speed at
which he inhaled his ﬁrst three glasses, I recognized instantly that I couldn’t
do that and, lacking a pacemaker, and engrossed in vicarious conversation, I
ended up not drinking at all.
I had been watching them for over an hour, and the food had been and
gone long already, when, for the ﬁrst time, Spengler turned his huge face
toward me and gurned an attempt at a smile, and his teeth were all horrid and
purple and he said to me in his deep Afrikaans drawl that was rolling and
stumbling,
“Gary…That’s a very expensive…red wine you’re…No t drinking.”
And I did the only thing I could have done in that situation. I turned to my
wine glass and I looked at it and I picked it up, and I tilted it at him and I
drank some, and then I put it down and then I turned my face to his face that
was glowing and purple and I smiled and I said to him: “That’s lovely,
Spengler. That’s really lovely.”
—
From there, the drinking outings just multiplied, and a kind of inverse
proportionality rule became established, where I went out with each traderwith a frequency in exact opposite proportion to that which I would have
chosen had I been given the choice.
Spengler and Rupert took me out (separately, obviously) at least once a
week, and each of their behaviors became increasingly atrocious in ways that
were peculiarly speciﬁc to them.
The broker lunches became broker dinners, and Spengler was much worse
in the evenings than he was in the daytimes and his teeth were much redder
and there was one young broker from Essex who couldn’t have been a day
over nineteen, and when Spengler was drunk he would kick him in the
backside and shout, “Take me drinking, Broker Bitch Boy!”
And when that would happen the boy wouldn’t look back at Spengler, he’d
turn and he’d look at me, and he wasn’t much younger than I was, and his
face would have an air of solemn complicity about it, and he wouldn’t smile
and I wouldn’t smile back at him, and all I’d do is I would try to meet his
stern gaze that burned into my eyes and I’d try my best to match his
solemnity, and then we’d both nod.
Rupert used to want to take me out in the evenings in Clapham, where he
lived, Ilford’s polar opposite in London in more than just geographical ways.
It used to take me hours to get back from there and sometimes we would
stay out so late that I would miss the last train, and Rupert would have to pay
for me to get a taxi all the way home, so I didn’t like going, but I didn’t really
have a choice about it, because Rupert wanted me to meet all his friends.
And his friends all had beautiful shirts that were monogrammed and
freshly ironed and they had expensive haircuts, and my shirts were from
Topman and I’d bought them on the premise that they were “non-iron,” and
they all started calling me “Gary the Geezer” and I started talking a little bit
more Essex than was really my voice.
And one of his friends had been with us in Vegas, and he was a trader at
Goldman Sachs and his name was Pippy-Holloway or something, and he’d
been the guy who’d got a nosebleed in the limo that time, and he was always
there when we went out. One day at a fancy-dress house party at Rupert’s
fancy place, where I had come dressed as Robin and Rupert had let me bring
Harry from the street, who had come dressed as Batman, and it was the ﬁrsttime we’d ever seen anyone take cocaine in the ﬂesh, that guy Pippy-Holloway
had introduced me to his girlfriend.
And she was beautiful, of course, in a porcelain kind of a way, and she
was all dressed in white like she’d come as a fairy or something, and I was so
shocked to ﬁnd out that Pippy had a girlfriend after all the things that I’d seen
him doing in Vegas and I looked at her and I kind of felt bad for her, but she
seemed happy, you know, she was smiling, so what could I do? I smiled back
at her and I put out my hand and we shook hands and I said: “Hi, I’m Gary,
yeah it’s lovely to meet you too.”
I didn’t talk to her for very long, but I asked her how long she’d been
dating Pippy-Holloway for, because I’d been wondering, and it turned out
they’d been dating for years.
But it wasn’t just Rupert and Spengler who were taking me out, everyone
got involved at some point. JB was always in the pub drinking with the
brokers, and I could join him whenever I liked, and Hong would come and
Snoopy would come too and sometimes even Caleb would come along. And
Snoopy would take me out with his brokers too, whenever he got the chance,
and I would always be happy to go with him because I felt safe with him and
he himself would always seem happy as long as he was being fed expensive
food. And every Wednesday we’d go out and play football and Harry from the
street would come along to every game, and maybe some other kids from the
street too, and some brokers, and then after that we’d go out for beers.
What fascinated me most about hanging out with the brokers, was that you
would often see the same brokers in diﬀerent places, with diﬀerent traders.
Bushead, for example, was Spengler’s broker, because he broked Skandis, but
he had been in Vegas with me and Rupert and all the other euro traders.
Jonesy, despite having been at my lunch with Spengler, was actually a
Canadian dollar broker, which made him Snoopy’s broker, and he was often
out for lunch with Snoopy. Bighead, my adopted city grandad, had been for
lunch that time with me and Rupert, but he was not actually Rupert’s broker,
he was actually a Sterling broker, of Bill’s.
What was interesting about this was not simply that the brokers were
attending lunches and dinners of diﬀerent traders, it was that the brokersthemselves were totally diﬀerent, each time. The Bushead that was with me in
Vegas, wantonly insulting the transport choices of celebrities, was
unrecognizable from the Bushead in the steak restaurant, with Spengler. The
Bighead who seduced Rupert with sushi was nothing like the Bighead
drinking in old pubs by the river with Bill. When the brokers were with
Rupert they were controlled, they were stoic, they spoke of the euro trader at
Deutsche Bank in ways that were cutting and cynical and harsh. When they
were with Spengler they were wild and abrasive and insulting, and they spoke
only about the boy himself and the market. When they were with JB, they
spoke about rugby. When they were with Snoopy it was all golf and food. The
brokers were chameleons, even their voices changed. And they seemed to
know exactly what each trader wanted. Spengler wanted red wine and white
tablecloths followed by nightclubs. Rupert wanted expensive sushi and bars.
Caleb, when he went out, wanted prestigious sporting events. Billy wanted a
pub lunch and a view of the Thames. The brokers never seemed to ask what
the traders wanted, or where they wanted to go. They seemed to osmose it.
They just knew.
I was oﬀered cocaine once by a broker. Exactly once. I turned it down. I
was never oﬀered it again. I wondered if it had gone on my permanent record.
I wondered what else would end up on there.
3
THE EVENINGS WITH RUPERT WERE getting more and more frequent, and later and
later, and it was inevitable things would blow up. I was young, but I was only
human, and I was still getting into the oﬃce at six thirty every day.
The thing that I liked about going out with Spengler was that he was
always drunk out of his mind by about 9 p.m. I could just go home and get a
good night’s sleep without saying anything and he wouldn’t even realize I’d
gone. You couldn’t pull that shit with Rupert. He’d drink and he’d drink and
he’d never get drunk. He knew where you were at any given time. He saw
everything. I went home when he wanted me to go home.
One evening, at a fancy bar in Clapham somewhere, with a stomach full of
sashimi and mojitos, we were getting close to the time of the last train.
Timothy Twineham was there, Pippy-Holloway was somewhere. At last-train
time I would always try to make a move because I knew that if I left at about
that time it would save Rupert the taxi fare and that meant he was more likely
to allow me to leave.
But he didn’t allow me to leave.
“Stay out. I’ll get you a taxi.”
But I didn’t get a taxi.
Over time, “get a taxi” became “stay at my place,” and that meant we were
drinking until 4 a.m. Remember, I start work at six thirty.
My alarm went oﬀ at 5:10 a.m. and I was sleeping on an enormous sofa in
an enormous cinema room and I felt immediately that I was gonna be sick.
Throwing up in Rupert’s cinema room seemed like the kind of thing that aman could be killed for, so I held it in and somehow I got into the oﬃce
without being sick on the tube.
I didn’t last much longer than that.
By seven forty-ﬁve I was locked in a toilet cubicle throwing last night’s
sashimi into the bowl like those banking retrogrades in the movies. I
staggered my way back to the desk about half an hour later and it must have
been obvious what I had been doing because Caleb sent me immediately
home. He didn’t seem angry or anything, he just walked over as soon as I got
back from the bathroom and put his hand on my shoulder and told me, “Go
home.”
I thought that was the right decision, to be honest, so I left.
That wasn’t the big problem though. The big problem was what happened
next.
I was obviously keen to redeem myself the next day, so I got in at about 6
a.m. to be the ﬁrst on the desk.
Billy, as always, was the next guy to get in and he didn’t say anything as he
walked past me, he just laughed as he walked past with his cappuccino and he
gave me a pinch on the back of my neck. Remember, my seat was on the very
edge of the desk, so every trader had to walk past me as they walked in, and
everyone was giving me some light-hearted shit. When Caleb walked past he
was in high spirits, and he said, more at me than to me, “What happened to
you yesterday, Gazza? You feelin’ better today? Was it Hobby who did that to
you?”
And I laughed and I thought nothing of it. Five minutes later Rupert
walked in.
“Morning Rupert,” Caleb said, without turning his face from his screens.
“Gary’s back today. He told me you did that to him.”
I, like Caleb, did not need to turn and face Rupert to know what his
reaction would be. I began to concentrate very hard on looking forward.
For about ﬁve minutes, nothing happened. No one on the desk said
anything at all to anyone and I didn’t see anything because I was using every
muscle available to me to look directly and exactly at my screens. At that
time, there was still an empty station to the left of me, and, to the left of that,Rupert’s station. I was certain that if I turned my head even an inch sideways,
I would see Rupert staring at me.
It was after about the sixth or seventh minute that I started to hear it, a
kind of low, guttural moan. It was diﬃcult not to react to that, but with great
eﬀort, I succeeded, and the volume of the moaning started rising and rising
until it became more clearly and more distinctly a growl. Many years later, I
encountered a wild boar in a temple on a mountain in Kyoto, and it made a
very similar sound. The growling, again, was diﬃcult not to react to, but I felt
that I had settled on a path now, and had I turned and faced Rupert at this
point, it could only make the situation worse. Besides, I couldn’t be the only
person hearing the growling, and no one else had said anything. So I sat there,
perspiring lightly, looking very intensely and purposefully forward, and
endeavoring not to react.
Then the banging started. A thump and a cracking bang, and then a pause,
and two more loud thumps and two more cracking bangs. It was humanly
impossible not to react to this, and it also occurred to me, on an instinctive
level, that I might be in danger now, physically, so I turned to my left to look
at Rupert, and when I saw him, this is what I saw.
Rupert’s large hands were spread ﬂat on his desk and his elbows were out
at right angles, and his arms were holding his upper body upward so that it
was leaned forward and twisted round and his head was projected quite some
way forward, not toward his screens, but up and around and over the vacant
space that was between us, so that his face was less than two feet from where
mine was. He was baring and gnashing his teeth whilst growling loudly, like a
dog. Under each trader’s desk were two small doors which could be opened
inward to reveal the computer towers of the computers that we were using
and, at infrequent intervals Rupert must have been kicking his legs out wildly
at those doors, for his body was jerking and loud cracks were emerging from
beneath him which must have come from the doors smashing and bouncing
oﬀ of the metal brackets behind.
I took all this in, of course, in a moment, and in that moment, I didn’t
know what to do. The sight was, quite simply, fantastical. It was amazing.
And I couldn’t tear my eyes away.I got myself into trouble, a few times, when I was a kid. A few times, it
had been with genuinely dangerous people, and I’d known people who’d been
seriously hurt. I knew what it was like to be threatened. But no one had ever
gnashed at me like a dog.
I knew that I should turn around and look back at my screens, but I
couldn’t stop looking at him. And so he looked at me, and he swung his head
round at me, and he gnashed at me for what must have been twenty seconds,
and I have no visual memory of anything other than Rupert’s taut, spasming,
animalistic body, lashing out from its pink-shirted cage at me. But nothing
happened. No one intervened.
And then suddenly, after this wild twenty seconds of wonder, I snapped
back to my senses, and I remembered that I was there, in this place, for a
reason, and that looking at this ﬂailing, lurching wolf of a man was insane,
and I swung my head back toward my screens, and I could still hear the
growling, but the gnashing stopped, and the growling subsided slowly, and I
didn’t look around for an hour, after that, but the noise calmed and,
eventually, it stopped.
And neither I, nor Rupert, ever mentioned a word of those twenty seconds
to one another, ever again.
And the maddest thing was that, after that happened, for the rest of the
day, and forever afterward, he didn’t seem mad about it at all.
But I tell you what though, I started going to Clapham less.
—
Things changed soon after that.
I wanted to introduce brokers, and broker lunches and broker dinners, into
this story, because a lot of the important things that happen on trading desks
don’t actually happen on trading desks at all. They happen in the bars and the
restaurants and the pubs of the City, and at Wimbledon and at Wembley
stadium and in the Venetian in Las Vegas and on yachts in Båstad in Sweden.
In all this, brokers are a big part of the social fabric that holds the tradingﬂoor together. What’s more, before long one particular broker will start to
play a big role in my life.
But when I look back at that time, it’s funny the things that I do and don’t
remember.
I remember the names of almost none of the bars, restaurants or pubs that
I went to. Years later, some time after I had retired from trading, as a special
occasion for a friend’s birthday party, I went to Hakkasan, which is a fancy
Chinese restaurant in Central London. It wasn’t until I walked in that I was
ﬂooded with a strong sense of déjà vu and I realized that I had been there, not
once, but probably a number of times before, and it was literally only at that
moment that it occurred to me that I had probably already been in most of the
most expensive restaurants in London. At the time, I had never really viewed
these places as restaurants, as places to be enjoyed. I had always viewed them
only as work, and as Spengler and Rupert sipped at their expensive wines that
tasted like shit to me, my priorities were only ever to learn, to impress, to ﬁt
in.
There are only a few restaurant names I remember. L’Anima was the ﬁrst
place that I ever ate veal. It was delicious. Locanda Locatelli was the
restaurant in which a broker stole my shoe and promised to give it back to me
only if I promised to do more business with him, which is why I went home
with one shoe.
There are a couple other evenings I remember. The ﬁrst time Billy took
me out, when I realized that he was not always taciturn and sober, but was in
fact a prodigious drinker. That night we had been accompanied by one of
those great rarities, a young female broker. She had that East London air of a
ﬁghter about her, and when Bill, in an unfortunate ﬁt of drunkenness,
accidentally tipped his eighth pint, in its entirety, into her expensive handbag,
I swear on my life I saw her physically suck a single tear back into her eye. I
respected that a lot.
I never saw her again.
I also remember the ﬁrst time Caleb took me out to go to my ﬁrst ever
England game, something that, when I was a child, was an impossible dream.I remember, at halftime, Caleb, and I, and the brokers, drinking, in the
comfortable bar area which sits behind the seats in Wembley’s plush
corporate zone, and I remember checking my phone and suddenly realizing
the second half had started, and grabbing Caleb by the wrist and saying, “The
second half’s started! We’ve got to go!”
And I remember Caleb and the other big men with pints in their hands
laughing deeply and bouncing their beers and saying they’d go when the
drinks were all done. And I remember we left early, too.
And I don’t remember who England played that day, or what players were
playing or who won or who scored the goals. But I remember that Orient had
been playing that day, too, and that I didn’t have any time anymore to go to
Orient with my dad since I’d started the job, and that, back when I did go
with my dad, we never used to miss a minute: the start of the ﬁrst half, the
start of the second half, the end of the second half. Even if we were losing by
a few goals and it was cold we’d still stay. And I remembered how my dad
would never forget a single scoreline or goalscorer, Northampton at home,
Grimsby away.
And I remember that at the end of those long evenings I would take the
train home or sometimes the taxi and I would often not get home until 1 a.m.
or sometimes much later, and that everyone would be sleeping in my house,
my parents, my sister, and that I’d been in that house for so long that I knew
exactly which parts of which stairs in the dark, steep, narrow staircase didn’t
creak when you stepped on them. The outer parts of the ﬁfth and the sixth
steps, and the ninth and the eleventh steps, and I remember that even in the
pitch-black I could creep up the stairs stepping only on those parts of those
steps, so as not to wake up my parents, or my sister, and then I remember
getting into my bed and setting my alarm, and that I’d set it for 5:10 a .m.
4
WHILE ALL OF THIS WAS happening everywhere, things were changing on the
desk.
I was still there on the ﬂoor every day before seven in the morning, sitting
behind Spengler’s shoulder, trying to learn what an FX swap was. For all of
Spengler’s faults, he was a good teacher as well as a good trader, and he
taught me.
An FX swap is, quite simply, a loan. In more detail, it’s a collateralized
loan. Think of it like this: you go to the pawn shop, you give them your gold
watch, and they lend you £200. This is also a collateralized loan. You have
received a loan of £200, and you’ve lent the pawn shop your gold watch as
“collateral.” “Collateral,” in this case, means simply a security you give to the
lender, which they can keep if you don’t repay the loan. That makes the loan
much less risky. This loan is, in a sense, also, a “swap.” The lender has given
you money for a period of time, and you have given the lender, for the same
period of time, your gold watch. Then you both give it back, so it’s a swap,
isn’t it? It’s a “cash-for-gold-watch” swap. An FX swap is exactly like that,
except, as collateral, instead of giving a gold watch, you give foreign currency.
You borrow £200 and, as collateral, you give an equivalent amount of euros,
which, at today’s exchange rate, would be €232. That’s a collateralized loan,
and it’s also a “currency-for-currency” swap: an “FX swap.”
This raises a question though. When you go to a pawn shop, you are the
one who pays interest, not the pawnbroker, because you are the one
borrowing money. But in an FX swap, you are both borrowing money—oneof you borrows pounds, the other borrows euros—so who pays interest? The
answer is simple: you both do! One of you pays the interest rate for pounds,
which, at that time, hovered around 4.5% , and the other pays the interest rate
for euros, 3.5%, give or take. Those cancel out, don’t they, and, in the end,
the borrower of pounds, which has the higher interest rate, pays the
diﬀerence, about 1%, to the borrower of euros.
So who uses these things? Well, basically, everyone. For any investment
fund, hedge fund or corporation with incomes in one currency and
investments in another, FX swaps are the go-to product. That could be The
Gap opening a sweatshop in Bangladesh, or your grandad’s pension fund
buying Japanese stocks. All of that stuﬀ is foreign exchange swaps. By daily
volume traded, they are one of the biggest ﬁnancial products in the world.
Got that? Great. That is pretty much the best explanation of an FX swap
you will ever get, I promise, and it is pretty much exactly how Spengler
explained it to me, although his explanation was much more boring, and
longer.
It turned out that it was a good time for me to learn what an FX swap was,
because FX swap trading, which had for so long been a little backwater of the
trading ﬂoor, was becoming, somehow, proﬁtable.
The reason that I knew this is because a part of my job as desk junior was
collecting the desk PnL. PnL, if you don’t know, stands for “Proﬁt and Loss,”
and it’s the only thing that matters in the world. At the end of each day, I
went round to each trader and collected their PnL estimate for the day.
Back in 2007, when I’d been interning, it had generally been considered
that a very good STIRT trader made ten million dollars in a year. That works
out at $40,000 a day, and very often a trader would make that. Of course, no
trader would make that every day, and every trader would sometimes make a
loss, but a good trader would be batting for that run rate, and would have that
ten million ﬁgure in their mind as a goal, or, as the STIRT traders would call
it, ten bucks.
I should probably add at this point that this is the money that the traders
make for the bank. It is not the money that they make themselves. The traders
themselves are working on a pretty regular salary (my salary at the time was£36,000, which I considered to be enormous), and at the end of the year they
get a “bonus” based on their PnL. How the bonus gets calculated from the
PnL was a process that was highly mysterious and about which, at that point,
I had not the slightest idea.
About that time, coming into the late summer of 2008, those daily PnLs
started to grow. Traders who would previously have been happy telling me
they made $50,000, started to make $100,000, or even $200,000, maybe one
or two times in a week. One day in late August, Bill made over a million
dollars in a single day. This was unprecedented.
Now the PnL numbers that I collected daily were just estimates that got
put in an email and sent to New York. But the computer systems calculated a
precise daily, monthly and yearly PnL for every single trader, that got sent to
everyone in an email at the end of each day. By the end of August, ﬁve
traders—Rupert, Billy, JB, Spengler, Hongo—had already made ten million
dollars for the year. Three of those—Billy, Spengler and Hongo—were
already above twenty.
It wasn’t just the STIRT traders who could see one another’s PnL. It was
all available on an internal website that everyone on the whole ﬂoor could see.
This meant that every trader on the entire ﬂoor knew that, at that moment,
moving into the ﬁnal third of 2008, the bank’s top three traders were, in order
—an old gray Liverpudlian who looked like a hobbit, an Afrikaans idiot, and
the junior euro dealer on the STIRT desk.
STIRT PnLs had already been unusually high when I’d turned up in June,
but most of this money had been made since then, in July and August, and I
didn’t really understand why. The only people who seemed to have any sort of
structural understanding about it were Billy and Caleb, who insisted that it
was because “the LIBOR had shot up.” That might as well have been
“because Venus is in retrograde” for all that I knew. The other traders didn’t
seem to know or care why it was happening; they were focused on the only
thing that mattered, which was that ﬁnally, after perhaps many years of
underappreciation, they were making the PnL that they felt they deserved.
You could see it in the way they carried themselves, and in the way they got
looked at as they walked round the ﬂoor. JB was chirpier than ever, and, as aresult, barely on the desk. Caleb, already a star of the trading ﬂoor, was
increasingly viewed as a legend. Even Billy started talking a bit. The only guy
who didn’t seem to be enjoying himself was Rupert, who, as you may have
noticed, hadn’t quite made the top three.
I was surprised by this development, although obviously pleasantly so, but
no one else seemed surprised at all. They all acted as if after ten years they
were ﬁnally getting a birthday. Besides, what’s the point in being surprised?
You have to make hay when the sun shines, I guess. They were making as
much hay as they could.
I would’ve loved a bit of hay of my own, to be honest, but, while I now
knew what an FX swap was, I still didn’t really understand how all of this
money was getting made, and whilst I wanted to ask Spengler to tell me, he,
like everyone else, was pretty focused on making the cash. Besides, I still had
to learn how to cover trade.
So that’s how the days were passing and passing. I’d come in usually at
about six twenty in the morning which meant I would get a bit of time with
Billy, and, as we moved into August, he would be saying more and more that
the global economy was going to blow up. That should have worried me, but
he was kind of laughing and smiling as he said it, and he said that he was
going to make a ton of money from it, so I ﬁgured it was just a turn of phrase.
Then when everyone else came in I would do some admin tasks on my
computer for an hour or two and for the rest of the day I’d sit with Spengler
and try to learn to cover trade until one of us went oﬀ on a broker lunch.
Cover trading was not diﬃcult, to be honest. You get called for a price,
you check where it should roughly be with a couple of the brokers, all of
whom I knew by now, you stick the dates of the FX swap in a little software
program that was specially made for the desk and it makes some price
suggestions, you shift that price up or down a little bit to reﬂect whether you
want to borrow or to lend, and then it’s done. After that, you decide whether
you want to hold on to the trade (because you like it), to hedge out
immediately for a small and quick proﬁt, or to try and haggle around for a
little bit just to make some more cash. Before long, I was cover trading for
Caleb and Spengler and Snoopy whenever they were oﬀ of the desk.As we moved into September a couple of things happened. Firstly, the
regular grad scheme started, which meant a bunch of green-as-you-like kids
around my age were brought in to do a load of classroom work upstairs on the
top ﬂoor, in preparation for their ﬁnancial exams. I had to do my ﬁnancial
exams as well, of course, which meant I, too, was up on the top ﬂoor.
Secondly, the end of the world started to get a bit serious.
There was a little button on all of the speakerboxes, which was next to and
identical to the buttons for the brokers. If you pressed it you could speak “on
the hoot,” which meant that your voice came out of every single speakerbox
on the ﬂoor. This was always good for a laugh when a trader came back from
a broker lunch four beers longer than he should have been and tried to
rancorously harangue the broker that he’d just been out drinking with, but
accidentally pressed the wrong button and ended up on the hoot.
Caleb started to do a little morning meeting on the hoot every day, and in
that meeting he would talk about the LIBOR number, which I still didn’t fully
understand, and what that meant for the global banking system and the world
economy.
It started to become apparent that the collapse of that global banking
system was quickly moving from the realm of “impossibility” into the realm
of “almost certainly not going to happen,” and then onwards to “very, very
unlikely,” which was not actually as reassuring to me as it might sound.
Nobody on the STIRT desk really seemed that bothered about it. In fact,
they seemed pretty happy. Because the higher that “LIBOR” number went,
and the more the global banking system capitulated, the more money
everyone seemed to make.
What had happened was that the guys on the credit desks—the credit
trading desk upon which I’d interned the previous summer, and the credit
structuring desk under which Matic had slept—had sold the world a lot of
apparently worthless bullshit for billions of dollars, and that would have been
quite ﬁne if it weren’t for the fact that they’d sold quite a lot of it to our bank
as well. That bit had been a real big mistake. Not only had they done that, but
the guys at Credit Suisse and at Deutsche Bank and at JPMorgan had all donethe same thing, and now it was becoming increasingly clear to everyone that
every single bank was going to go bust.
The take on the STIRT desk regarding this was nuanced. Firstly, we
regarded the role that our employer was playing in the demise of both the
global banking system and the global economy to be a moral failing on all of
our parts. That’s a joke, obviously. Nobody thought that, of course. Why the
fuck would we think that? The credit traders were all pricks and they sat on
the other side of the ﬂoor anyways and look at them all fat like pigs in their
pink shirts. They’ve been making more money than we’ve made for years now
so fuck those guys, it’s our turn to get paid.
The traders started making a million dollars a day, two or three times a
week. The imminent bankruptcy of our own employer was of no concern to
anyone. We all knew that we’d get bailed out.
“What are they gonna do?” they’d all joke to each other. “Send the guys
with brown overalls in to run this whole thing?”
And then we’d all laugh and we’d make loads of money.
Well, except for me. I wasn’t making any money, and I was really trying
quite hard to ﬁgure out what it was exactly that everyone was doing to make
so much of it, but it really wasn’t easy to tell. I still laughed, though, when
everyone laughed.
And that’s when it happened.
—
Nobody thought that Lehman would go under.
I had two friends who were working at Lehman. Remember that guy Sagar
Malde? From LSE? The Kenyan guy. Fucking nice guy. He was working at
Lehman. He’d just started the graduate scheme, as a trader. And a mate of
mine, from my old grammar school in Ilford. His name was Jalpesh Patel.
He’d just started at Lehman as well. He’d got in through a scheme to improve
representation for ethnic minorities.
They didn’t think Lehman would go under.Bear Stearns, another, slightly smaller American investment bank, had
died like a canary in the coalmine just a few months earlier, and they’d gotten
bailed out, so everyone thought Lehman would get bailed out as well.
At least that’s what Caleb used to say every morning on the hoot.
But they didn’t get bailed out. And Sagar Malde lost his job and Jalpesh
Patel lost his job too. And they both had only started those jobs just a couple
of weeks previously and they had been given little “Lehman Brothers” duﬀel
bags they used to carry around.
And a little part of me felt bad that they lost their jobs, but another part of
me said well, that’s the way it goes, isn’t it? You guys should have picked
better banks.
But another part of me said what the fuck are you talking about? You won
your job in a fucking card game and you didn’t do no research and not only
that but your bank is under as well, mate, and if the cards had fallen in
another direction that would be you on TV packing your shit into a Citigroup
bag.
But I’m not really sure if a part of me actually said that or if I’m just
making that up to make myself feel better. Because the main thing I thought
was, man, I’m still dancing. There’s money to be made here, and the music
ain’t stopped.
Of course, there was one speciﬁc problem with that plan, one kind of
elephant in the room, which was that my employer was also by this point
conspicuously bankrupt, and anyone with half a brain knew. Even I knew.
So when Caleb announced on the hoot that the near-term foreclosure of
our own bank was no longer “very, very unlikely” but was actually now “we
estimate less than a 25 percent chance,” it was weirdly more reassuring to me
than “very, very unlikely” had been.
But at 9 a.m. on Monday, September 15, when I went to the top ﬂoor to
learn about bond mathematics with all the other twenty-one-year-olds on the
grad scheme, and I told them about that “less than 25 percent chance,” it was
clear that they deﬁnitely hadn’t known. You should have seen the looks on
their faces.Caleb was right though, or maybe he wasn’t right. It’s very diﬃcult,
philosophically, to judge accurately the correctness of a probabilistic forecast
like that.
We did get bailed out though. And I kept my job. I didn’t have to pack my
shit up in that Citibank duﬀel bag. And what is there to say about that really,
except to thank God?
Which is something that none of us did at the time.
—
I went in at 6:10 a.m. the Monday after the bailout, the beginning of October
2008. I was still twenty-one. Billy was already in. When I walked onto the
desk it was only him and me there, and it was dark outside, because it was
still very early. Bill was sitting down, small, in the corner, and I could see the
dark sky through the window behind him and he was already looking in my
direction, and he was grinning from ear to ear at me, like a little Scouse
monkey, and he was nodding at me like a madman. All of this was entirely
out of character, for Bill, but Bill had made thirty million dollars in the
previous week, and now that the bank’s not going to go under, he’s probably
going to get paid. That’s why he was happy. To this day, I am still relatively
convinced that, in that week, Bill had actually made perhaps well over one
hundred million dollars, and had spent the entire week hiding the cash. I’ll
shortly explain how Bill made so much money, but the main thing that you
need to know now is that Billy was happy. And I liked Billy, a lot. So that
meant I was happy as well.
Caleb came in next, before six thirty, which was uncharacteristically early
for him. All of the other traders came in very shortly afterward, which was
much earlier than usual for everyone. Hardly anyone else was there on the
whole trading ﬂoor, and we were all there, sitting down at our glowing walls
of screens, in the darkness. It felt like a midnight mass.
No one said anything, and then at one moment, Billy spun his chair around
into the aisle, so that he was right next to Caleb, and he shouted to Caleb in a
broad Scouse, “So Caleb, what do you think of the bailouts then?”And we all turned and we looked at them but Caleb didn’t turn to look
back at Billy but he looked forward and he reached up with his left hand and
supported his chin, and he thought for a little while and he looked kind of
sad, and then he said, “I don’t know Billy…It feels like getting bailed out by
your dad.”
And it was the ﬁrst time and the last time and the only time that I ever
heard anyone on the trading ﬂoor talk about the bailouts in anything that was
anything like ethical terms.
And then everyone turned back to their screens, and they all started
trading, and they all made more money by doing it than anyone had ever
made in their lives.
—
So. Why were the Lehman crisis and the bailouts so proﬁtable for the STIRT
desk?
Well, at that time, pretty much every major bank in the whole world, but
especially in America, went bankrupt. As a result, banks stopped lending to
each other, for two simple reasons:
1. You probably shouldn’t lend someone money if they are about to go
bankrupt.
2. You probably shouldn’t lend someone money if you are about to go
bankrupt.
These are good rules for life. Write them down.
Now, if nobody’s making loans, then loans become expensive, and, as I’ve
explained to you, an FX swap is, basically, a loan. Not only is it a loan, but it’s
a collateralized loan, which means you don’t make a huge loss if your
borrower goes bankrupt, and, when the whole world is on the verge of
bankruptcy, these are the only loans you are able to make.
We were the only game in town.
The way that we saw this happening was that all the spreads blew up.
Remember the spreads in the trading game? 67–69?  I-buy-at-67-and-I-sell-at-69? Well imagine if suddenly that’s 47–89, and you’ve got people trading
with you regularly on both sides. As soon as you get one buyer and seller,
that’s a guaranteed proﬁt of 42, when you used to be playing with 2’s.
Welcome to the buﬀet, eat as much as you can.
And they did eat. And no one ate as much as Spengler.
Spengler had always been a ﬁend. He loved to make money and he loved
to rip customers. He was a trader right down to his bones. Once, back in July,
he’d ripped a customer so hard that the salesperson had come back and
complained to Caleb, and Caleb had asked Spengler what he had been doing
and Spengler, who was seated, had looked up at him as if aggrieved, with his
arms spread out wide, and said to him, “It’s not my fault Caleb, it’s my job!”
And Caleb had looked down at Spengler like a father looks down at his
son and put his arm round his shoulder and leaned into him and said, “It’s not
your job to rip the customers Spengler. Your job is to rip them, and leave
them smiling.”
And I always remembered that. But I think Spengler forgot it at times.
After Lehman he forgot it a lot.
One day that week, after the bailout, Spengler ripped a customer so hard
that he made two million dollars. Two million dollars in one single trade.
After he did that, he got so excited that he leaped out of his swivel chair
and into the aisle, and he dropped into a deep lunge that must have made his
cream chinos see their whole life ﬂash before their eyes. His heavy head
started to bounce, with his huge mouth agape, and his arms were ﬁst-pumping
and the sight was so obscene and so absurdly horriﬁc that everyone turned
their chairs round to watch.
Caleb jumped from his chair immediately and grabbed the boy in the
same way that a football steward grabs and wraps a streaker, and then he was
holding him by the shoulders and leaning into him and their noses were
almost touching and he was saying to him quietly, “What the fuck are you
doing? What the fuck are you doing?”
And he was just saying it again and again and Spengler was arching his
head backward and his mouth was trembling and trying to form words butnothing was coming out and all he could say was, “B–b–b ut—I—b–b–b–b ut I
—”
“Shut the fuck up,” replied Caleb, and he was talking in a whisper and he
pointed over across the trading ﬂoor and he said to Spengler, “Look over that
way. Look over that way. Do you see those guys? They’re losing their fucking
jobs this week. Do you understand that? They’re losing their fucking jobs this
week and you’re standing here ﬁst-pumping like a maniac. What the fuck are
you doing, Spengler? Do you want to get paid here? Yeah? Do you want to
get paid?”
Remember that question. “Do you want to get paid?”
—
Through all of this there was a problem, a big problem. You might have
already spotted it.
The traders on the STIRT desk are making money here because the
spreads have gone massive. And who gets the money from big spreads? I’ll
remind you, it’s the owners of the books. Spengler was making all the Skandi
spread money because he was the trader for Skandis, and JB was making all
of the yen spreads because he was the trader for yen. Rupert was making all
the money for euros, and Bill made the money for pounds.
And what was I the trader for? Nothing. So what money was I making?
Jack shit.
That’s the problem.
So, we need a new plan.
OK, so how do I make money here, when everyone’s making money, if I
can’t access the money from the books?
Well, there’s one guy who was making more money than anyone, and that
guy was Bill.
What was Billy doing?
Well, what Bill was doing it turns out, was this.
Bill had been skeptical about the global economy for some time. He didn’t
believe you could run an economy simply by lending money to dickheads andhe could see global debts going up. He had long suspected the math-genius-
credit-traders to be the spoiled rich idiots that, in hindsight, they probably
were, and he’d been expecting their shit to blow up.
The problem was, he had been a little bit early, and he’d been betting on
this blow-up for years. This had probably cost him a few million dollars in
PnL in each of the previous three years, which explained both why he had
not, thus far, been particularly proﬁtable for Citibank, and why Rupert
thought that he was an idiot.
Billy was not an idiot.
What Billy had actually been doing was that he had been betting that
diﬀerent kinds of interest rates would diverge. OK, imagine this: imagine you
need to borrow money for three months. What do you do? Well, you go to
your bank or your mum or the maﬁa or whoever it is you go to to get your
loans and you ask for a loan for three months, right? Simple. But if you’re a
big bank or an investment fund or a corporation, there’s another thing that
you can do. If you’re a big institution like that, then you could call a big,
institutional lender, like Citibank, and you could ask for a loan for only one
day. OK, you’re thinking, that doesn’t ﬁx the problem, because I need money
for three months, not one day. Well, that’s no big problem, actually. When the
loan comes due, tomorrow, you go back to another big lender, maybe
Deutsche Bank this time, and you borrow the money again for a day. Now
you’re good for two days. Do that every day for three months, and you’re
laughing. Basically, if you want to borrow money for three months, you have
a couple options—you can take one loan for three months, or you can take
ninety separate loans each for one single day.
So which do you choose? Which would you prefer? You are probably
thinking, I’d rather take the three months because then I can have it all sorted
and know the whole interest rate in advance. But in the international money
markets, you can easily arrange ninety single-day loans in advance as well, so
in both cases, you can ﬁx your interest rates in advance.
The correct answer is that if you are the borrower, you prefer the ninety-
day loan, and if you are the lender, you prefer the single-day loans. The
reason for this is that if you lend someone money for ninety days, and they gobankrupt on day twenty-ﬁve, you are fucked, but if you only lent them money
for one day, you are not. And if you are a borrower, and you borrow money
for one day, and on day twenty-ﬁve people realize you’re going bankrupt, you
are fucked, whereas if you borrowed money for ninety days, then you might
have a chance.
Of course, before 2008, none of this mattered, because banks didn’t go
bankrupt back then. But in 2008, that all changed. The ninety-day lending
market totally evaporated, whereas the one-day lending market remained
virtually unchanged. Little gray Billy was the only guy in the whole City, it
seemed, who realized that was going to happen. He’d been betting on it
happening for years. When it happened, he made tens of million dollars in a
single week, and much more than that after that, too. Turns out, when he had
been saying the global economy was going to blow up, it had not been a turn
of phrase, after all. He was right, after years of being laughed at. And let me
tell you, he fucking enjoyed it.
Wouldn’t you?
Problem is, though, that didn’t ﬁx my problem. Because that bet had
already gone. I should have made it two weeks ago. Once a guy’s made forty
million dollars on a trade, you can bet that now is probably too late.
So what did I do? I went back to Spengler.
Other than Bill, Spengler was the one other trader on the desk who was
making far more money than he should have been.
Technically, Spengler was not the desk’s second most proﬁtable trader—
that was Hongo, who would go on to make over a hundred million dollars that
year, just like Bill. But Hongo was on the euro book, and Spengler was
trading the Skandis. There was a clear hierarchy on the desk of which books
were most proﬁtable, and the Skandis were down near the bottom.
So how was Spengler making so much money? If I could convince him to
show me, then maybe I could make some as well.
In the immediate aftermath of Lehman, there hadn’t really been much
time to think. Nobody wanted to do any cover trading, because they were all
making so much money on their own books, and Caleb was oﬀ the desk allthe time in meetings with the bigwigs trying to make sure everyone would get
paid. Because of that, I was covering most of the time.
But once we got into November, the markets started to calm down, just a
little, and Caleb came back to the desk. That meant I was able to get back,
once again, behind Spengler, who, by that point, had already made an
absolute ton. It was clear that he was going to end up as one of the bank’s top
traders that year, despite being one of the youngest, and it was getting to his
massive head. For me, though, that wasn’t a problem. When Spengler was
feeling big for his boots, there were only two things he wanted to talk about:
trading, and himself. Our interests were perfectly aligned.
I asked Spengler how he’d made so much money and he showed me an
enormous spreadsheet that he used to use. It was a masterpiece. It broke the
whole Swedish aka “Stokkie” FX swap market down into individual days.
How much does it cost to borrow Stokkie on December 14? What about
May 23? Every single day was isolated and analyzed and a comparison was
made between the current price in the market, and what the price, in
Spengler’s mind, should have been. He sent me that spreadsheet, and I used it
for years.
As we were looking through the spreadsheet, Spengler explained all the
features of his “position,” which is what traders call the list of all the diﬀerent
trades they’ve made at any given time. In the case of the Stokkie FX swap
market, that meant how much Swedish krona he had borrowed, or lent, on
any given day. He always had some random esoteric reason for every
individual trade.
But there was one thing I noticed as we looked through Spengler’s
position. He’d borrowed Swedish krona on every single day. Remember, an
FX swap is a loan, right? But it’s also a swap, which means it’s a two-way
loan. You don’t just borrow a thing, you also lend a thing. In the speciﬁc case
of Spengler’s Swedish krona book, the thing he was lending in return for all
the Swedish krona was US dollars. The situation struck me as a little unusual.
You might have thought that he would borrow Swedish krona on some days,
when it was cheap, and lend it on other days, when it was expensive. But he
wasn’t doing that, he was borrowing Swedish krona and lending US dollarsagainst it on every single day for the upcoming two years. The only diﬀerence
was how much he was borrowing.
Why was he doing that?
Later that afternoon, when I got a bit of time, I went and had a look
through the other traders’ FX swap books. Billy was also lending US dollars,
on every single day. So was Snoopy, albeit in smaller size. Caleb and JB were
doing it too. They were all lending dollars on every single day for the next two
years.
Before the end of the day, I went back to Spengler, and I asked him.
“Why’s everybody lending dollars? Why’s nobody borrowing dollars?”
Spengler looked at me like I was an idiot.
“Why the fuck would we borrow US dollars? Borrowing US dollars is
fucking retarded.”
I tried to strike a pose with my face that made me look like I wasn’t
“retarded.” But it must not have cut the mustard because Spengler let out a
deep sigh and opened his spreadsheet.
“Look, what’s the interest rate for dollars right now? It’s 1 percent, right?
And it’s going down to 0 percent. But look what interest rate we can get in the
FX swap.” He started to ﬁddle some numbers around in the corner of the
sheet. “We’re getting over 3 percent. It’s free money.”
I didn’t need to hear that twice. He was still talking, and I wasn’t listening,
because I was trying to work out how to ask him if I could get some of the
trade. I didn’t need to think long though, because I was still trying to ﬁgure
out what to say to him when I suddenly realized he was looking directly at me
and saying:
“So? Do you want some?”
Well, what do you think?
—
So let’s open up here and make sure you’re still with me.
An FX swap is a loan. It’s a two-way loan where both people borrow one
currency from one another. They both pay interest, which means, in the end,only one person pays the interest diﬀerential. If pounds are 3% and dollars
are 2%, then the pound borrower pays the diﬀerence, which would be 1%.
But who sets the interest rates on the individual currencies?
So there’s a real fancy old building somewhere in your capital city, or in
Frankfurt if you’re European, and that building’s called the “Central Bank.” It
will probably be called the Bank of England or the Bank of Japan—ba sically
the bank of wherever you’re from. In the US it’s called the Federal Reserve or
Fed. In Europe, it’s the European Central Bank (ECB). In that fancy building
a bunch of posh mummy’s boys who never left university try every year, and
desperately fail, to prevent your economy from slowly collapsing. Then, they
go and have a fancy dinner in a wood-paneled hall. These guys are important
to your life, even if you don’t know it, and they are important in this story
too.
At this point, though, the only thing you need to know about these guys is
that they set the interest rates for every country in the world, including yours.
(Another related fact, that you don’t need to know, but might ﬁnd interesting,
is that Bill had his own designated taxi driver, who would drive him home
after broker dinners to his Hertfordshire manor whenever he missed the last
train. One time I had a drink with that driver—his name was Sid—and he
told me that whenever Bill was extra drunk, as a point of principle, he would
make Sid stop oﬀ outside the Bank of England, so that he could sneak into an
alley round the side of it and take a piss on the back of the Bank. Sid said that
Bill would insist on that, even if it was not at all on the route home. I
respected that a lot.)
So at this time in history, late 2008, central banks all over the world were
rapidly slashing the interest rates to zero, in the desperate and ultimately futile
hope that it would somehow stimulate their economies. This was happening
to almost every currency on the desk: pound, euro, Swiss franc, Swedish
krona and Danish krone, and the American and Canadian dollars. Once you
add in the Japanese yen, which had already had zero interest rates for nearly
twenty years, almost all of the major currencies would soon be at zero.
So what does that mean for FX swaps? Well, if the payment on an FX
swap is equal to the interest rate diﬀerential, and almost all interest rates aregoing to zero, then the interest rate diﬀerentials must all also be zero, as well,
right? And then all the FX swaps should be free!
But as Spengler had pointed out to me, the FX swaps weren’t all free. The
very, very short-term FX swaps, the one-day ones, were free: the price was
eﬀectively zero. But for anything longer than a couple of weeks or a month
there was a really huge premium for borrowing US dollars. This created an
equally huge opportunity for FX swap traders to lend dollars for three months
at a time, and then just borrow them back every day. It was, as Spengler
explained to me, free money.
Except, nothing’s ever really free money. Is it? Could it really be that easy
to make cash? If it was that easy, why wasn’t everyone doing it? Well, the
truth is that everyone was doing it. But was it really free? What were the
risks?
These are all the questions that I could have asked myself that day, as I sat
there, behind Spengler, and he was swinging his massive spreadsheet around.
But I didn’t ask any of them. I nodded, and I said, “Yeah man, for sure, I want
some.”
And Spengler just pressed the button and he spoke to Granty and he put
the trade on for me, and just like that I’d lent two hundred and forty million
dollars, for three months, in a dollar/Stokkie FX swap with Danske Bank
Copenhagen, and I went home that day thoroughly happy, and it was the ﬁrst
medium-sized trade of my life.
It wasn’t until I got home, and I was eating dinner with my parents, and
watching a little tiny fuzzy black-and-white television that you used to change
channel on with a dial, that I thought to myself: “Wait a minute, what the
fuck am I doing? I don’t know anything about dollar/Stokkie foreign
exchange swaps. I’ve never been to Sweden in my life. And what the fuck do I
know that Danske Bank Copenhagen doesn’t know? And isn’t two hundred
and forty million dollars like, kind of a lot?”
The truth is that two hundred and forty million dollars, the size of trade
suggested by Spengler, was not really a big trade to the STIRT desk, who
frequently traded in billions and referred to them as “yards.” But it was a hellof a lot of money to me, and talking about a trade really feels very diﬀerent to
actually having a trade. I didn’t sleep much that night.
The next day I went in super early. I had to talk to Bill.
I was actually waiting for Billy when he got in that morning, and that
surprised him. All the questions that I should have asked the previous day had
at last crystallized in my mind. Putting your own money, and your reputation,
and your career on the line, on what is basically just an opinion, will make
you think long and hard about whether those opinions are actually right.
Think about that when you’re watching the news.
Billy was looking at me askance when he came in and he saw me, already
sitting next to his chair, and I told him what I’d done before he’d even sat
down.
“I lent $240 million of three-month Stokkie.”
Bill was laughing immediately. He thought that was funny as fuck.
“Fuckin hell, did ya? Finally grew some fucking balls and lent some
fucking dollars, yeah? Why the fuck’d you do that then hey Gal?”
He was pissing himself.
I didn’t sugar coat it.
“Spengler told me it was free money.”
I told him the truth, and he looked at me as if I’d been an idiot. To defend
myself, I added:
“Everyone’s doing it. I checked everyone’s position. Everyone’s doing it.
You’re doing it too!”
Then Billy smiled and he nodded and his attitude changed. And he
probably would have ruﬄed my hair if I hadn’t have shaved it all oﬀ, but I
had, so he just pinched my nose. He turned away and he looked at his
screens.
“Not as dumb as you look are you, you fucking cockney twat. We’re all
doing it are we? Well, it looks like you’re doing it too.” And he laughed and
he booted up his nine monitors and he pulled his Financial Times out of his
bag.
“Why’s everyone doing it then? What are the risks?”Bill dropped his Financial Times to the ﬂoor, then, and he turned and
looked into me with an air of seriousness.
“Well, well, well, well,” Billy said, and he was fucking loving all of this.
“Somebody really has gone and grown a pair overnight, haven’t they? What
do you think are the risks?”
“I don’t know. Spengler said it’s free money. Maybe that means there
aren’t any risks.”
“Good fucking answer, why the fuck did you do it if you don’t know what
the fucking risks are?”
“I did it because you’re doing it, Bill.”
And Bill smiled at that. “Good fucking answer again. Well, I’ll tell you
why I’m doing it. I’m doing it because the world needs US fucking dollars and
we’re fucking Citibank, and we’re the biggest American bank in the whole
fucking world and we’ve got the dollars and they don’t fuckin have them, so
we’ll charge them whatever we want, and we’re all gonna get paid. OK? Do
you understand that?”
I nodded.
“And now I’m gonna tell you something even more important, right? Don’t
you ever fucking tell me, in your whole fucking life, that there’s a trade that
doesn’t have a fucking risk in it. OK? That’s what those cunts over in Credit
thought and look what the fuck happened to them. And I’m gonna tell you
one last thing, the most important thing of all of it, and then you’re gonna
fuck oﬀ and sit back in your corner. This trade will blow up, and we’ll all lose
our fuckin arses, in one situation. The trade will blow up if the global banking
system collapses. And if that happens, this whole place goes under. You’ll
lose your job, and I’ll lose my job, and the whole global economy comes
down with it. We’re betting that’s not going to happen. And we’re gonna be
right, right? And we’re gonna get paid. And then we’re all gonna go and have
a good few drinks afterward, and now you’re gonna do it as well. And you
should probably go back to your seat now and have a good long think about
what all of that means. And you make sure it’s the last fucking time you ever
do a trade that you don’t know the risks of. It’s a good fucking trade though
Gal. Well fucking done.”And he was already back in his screens, and I was back in my seat, and it
wasn’t the last fucking time that I ever did a trade that I didn’t know the risks
of, and if it had have been, I could have saved myself some big trouble, over
the years. But despite all of that, and exactly as was told to me by both Bill
and Spengler, it was indeed a good fucking trade, and by Christmas I’d made
seven hundred grand.
—
Looking back at those ﬁrst few months on the desk, going out drinking,
eating raw chicken, learning about trading, running around covering all the
diﬀerent traders when they were out on the piss, making my ﬁrst seven
hundred grand PnL, I can’t believe how fun it all seemed, at the time. The
days became nights became days became nights and it all seemed to blur into
one. And JB was always there with a joke and a smile and Caleb always
seemed to notice the good work that I did. And even if Rupert was dangerous
and Spengler repulsive, none of it all seemed to matter, because everyone was
making the cash.
Well, I wasn’t making much cash, at that point, of course, but even that
was coming, I could feel it. The PnL was appearing, and my thirty-six grand
salary was more money than I’d ever had in my life anyway. And I was going
to restaurants, which was a thing that I’d never done, and I was walking
around making trades on the trading ﬂoor wearing pointy shoes and a little
Bluetooth headset. What more could you want?
But more than that, more than any of that, it felt, for the ﬁrst time in a
long time, like I was a part of a family. And Billy and Caleb were like two
separate and opposite fathers, one small and scrappy and sweary and the other
huge and impossibly smooth, and Rupert and JB were the one mean and the
one friendly uncle at Christmas, and Snoopy and Spengler were like my big
brothers.
And in the few evenings when I went home to have dinner with my actual
parents, they’d harass me for rent and they’d ask me for money to ﬁx the car.
And I did have to give them the car money, but I told my mum that I waspaying the rent to my dad, and I told my dad that I was giving it to my mum,
and neither of them realized that for ages, and everything felt like it was just
coming together in the world.
5
AND THEN SPENGLER WAS GONE.
I didn’t realize at ﬁrst. Spengler was always the last guy to arrive in the
mornings, so when Caleb walked past about ﬁfteen minutes before Spengler
usually appeared, and said, “You’re covering for Spengler today,” as he
walked by, I didn’t think anything of it. But though it wasn’t unusual for
Spengler to be late, which often happened if he’d been out heavy drinking, it
was unusual for him not to come in at all, especially without texting me or
anything. But I ﬁgured anyone could get sick.
What was strange was that no one said a word. Everyone took the piss out
of Spengler all the time, and him not turning up without any notice was
something that would have usually at least merited a joke. But it didn’t. No
one said anything at all.
By then I was used to covering for all of the traders, and so I had my
speakerbox set up with a couple brokers on it for each of the diﬀerent
currencies. The way it worked was that every broker had an open line to the
bank which you could add to your speakerbox, and whenever that broker
shouted down to us, it would come out of the box of each of the traders
who’d put that speciﬁc line on their board. You could turn the volume up or
down, or even oﬀ (the innermost fear of every broker) for any line you
wanted, so if for example I got called in to trade Skandis, like in this
situation, all I had to do was turn the volume up for the two Skandi brokers
that I had on my board.Spengler, who always traded Skandis, had far more Skandi brokers on his
own board, ﬁve or six. I’d told the two on my board that I was covering, but
the other three or four didn’t know, and they kept chirping, unanswered, out
of Spengler’s box into his unoccupied seat. After about an hour of this, one of
the Danish Carstens started to wonder why he wasn’t being answered, and
began to shout, “Spengler! Spengler! Are you there? Are you there?” for
about ﬁfteen minutes, before JB, who was sat next to the speakerbox,
slammed both of his hands angrily down onto his own desk, got up out of his
seat, wordlessly, leaned over to Spengler’s speakerbox and turned the volume
on every one of his broker lines down to “oﬀ,” then sat back down. It was
then that I realized something was up.
Barely anyone said anything that whole day, beyond the unavoidable
shouting of numbers. Even JB—pe rhaps especially JB, usually the loudest
and most sociable—was completely silent.
It wasn’t until mid-afternoon, when the morning rush of trades had passed,
that Billy walked toward the aisle, grabbed me by my right ear and pulled me
physically out of my seat.
There was a little mini Starbucks on the trading ﬂoor, where an enormous
Brazilian barista used to sing falsetto and listen to samba while he made you
your coﬀee. Whenever me and Billy went for coﬀee, we would always go
there. But we didn’t go there. We went to a little Italian café out on the wide,
open Canary Wharf plaza, away from the bank. Bill said very little as we
walked over to the café, then he bought two cappuccinos and he sat me down.
It was early December by then, so the afternoon sun was already low in the
sky and was ﬁltering onto our wooden table through large white-painted wood
windows that were designed to pretend to look old.
“Do you know what’s happened?” Billy asked me.
“No. I don’t know what’s happened. What’s fucking happened?”
“Rupert’s fucked Spengler.”
That hadn’t actually been what I’d been expecting. Spengler had always
seemed to me to be the kind of guy to fuck himself pretty badly. I tried not to
betray any emotion and just said, “OK. What happened?”
“You remember when Spengler was covering Rupert?”I did remember that. About three weeks previously Rupert had been away
from the desk for two weeks on holiday, because even though Rupert would
not normally have taken holiday at such an important time, it was legally
mandatory for every trader to take one two-week chunk of leave every year,
and Rupert had not taken his yet. Because the euro book was too big for
Hongo to do on his own, and deemed too important to be covered by me,
Spengler, who had been trading his own Skandi books so excellently, had
been given the cover job while Rupert was away.
I nodded, and Bill continued.
“And you know Spengler made a fuckton of money for Rupert?”
This much I knew too. Spengler had made signiﬁcantly more in his time
trading the euro book than Rupert had been making himself, even though he
had been trading his own Skandi books at the same time. (Remember,
though, the euro money still goes to Rupert.) We’d all noticed this, and we
would all have been taking the piss out of Rupert about it only we knew he’d
blow up if we said anything, and, besides, we could all see him steaming over
it anyway. It was funnier to not say a word.
“Well Rupert came back and he checked all the trades.”
That was a bit crazy, but it was more than believable. The euro book was
massive, and hundreds of trades would go through it every day, but it was well
within Rupert’s nature to check every one of them. Sometimes salespeople
would try to book trades at slightly the wrong price, to try and pinch a bit of
money, and then claim that it was an accident when they got called up on it.
You could bet Rupert never missed a single one. Checking all the trades that
went through your book in the two weeks while you’d been on holiday, though,
was a diﬀerent level of anal retention, especially when you consider how busy
the trading desk had been during that time. He must have stayed in the oﬃce
late to do it. And what was he doing it for? Just to ﬁnd out precisely the exact
ways that Spengler was better than him?
“OK,” I said, “and what did he ﬁnd?”
“Turns out Spengler made even more money trading for Rupert than we
thought he did. So much so that he ﬁgured he’d take some for himself. Hetransferred three million dollars out of Rupert’s PnL account and into his
own.”
My immediate reaction to this was not that it was wrong, or that it was
immoral. Fuck me, if I could have taken three million dollars out of Rupert’s
bag and got away with it, who knows, I probably would have done. What
struck me immediately was that this was incredibly stupid. Of all the people
to steal from and expect not to get caught for it. Turns out Spengler did fuck
himself, after all.
But at the same time, I could just see him doing it. I could see him sitting
there, trading for Rupert, who everyone knew hated him, and making so
much more money for him than Rupert would have made himself, and just
thinking, “Why should I let Rupert take this money? I’m the guy sitting here.
I’m the guy making it. I’m a better trader than he is. Why shouldn’t I take my
piece? Just a bit. Just a piece.”
Yeah. I could see it. It was too easy to see.
But still. It was stupid as fuck.
Now Bill’s face took a more serious turn, and he ﬁxed me directly in the
eye.
“Listen. I don’t give a fuck about Spengler. He stole. He’s an idiot. He got
fucked. But let me tell you one thing. He’s not the only guy stealing on that
trading ﬂoor. He’s not the ﬁrst and he won’t be the last. I’ve seen it too many
times. But listen kid, there’s one thing that you’re gonna learn from this. I’m
an old man, and you are still young. You’re gonna be in this game for many
years more than I will, and maybe you’ll steal at some point too. But whatever
the fuck you do, whatever the fuck you do, you remember these three letters
—C-Y-A. You know what CYA stands for?”
I didn’t know, and I communicated that fact.
“CYA stands for Cover. Your. Arse. Cover Your Arse. Whatever you do,
Gal, you Cover Your Arse. I don’t care who you steal from in this game, as
long as it’s not me or my mates. But if you ever steal from anyone, or do
anything dodgy, even one percent dodgy, you do not leave a trace of you on
it, not a trace of you on it. Do you hear me? Not even the tiniest hint of your
smell. I mean it. Coz you’re popular now, and you’re doing well, and everyonelikes you. But one day, at some point in the future, somebody’s not going to
like you, and trust me now, they’ll scrape through all of your shit. So you
make sure every inch of it is smelling like roses. OK? Do you hear me? Coz
otherwise, how the fuck do you sleep at night? Don’t let these fuckers have
one single thing over your head. Whatever you do Gal. Cover. Your. Arse.”
And I never forgot that, and thank fuck that I didn’t.
—
The next day, Spengler was still gone. And I was trading Skandis for that
oversized invisible boy from my seat on the corner of the desk. Rupert was
still two seats to the left of me, beyond the empty seat, and in quiet moments,
when he wasn’t looking, I’d try and catch a glance at him. I wanted to see if
there’d been any kind of change in him, any visible hint of what he’d done.
There wasn’t. He looked calm. He looked totally collected. If anything, he
looked calmer than before. He looked happy. He looked, dare I say it,
peaceful, even zen. At one point he pulled a book out, right there on the desk,
and he put his feet up on the dustbin and started to read it. The book was
called How to Conceive a Boy. I asked him if it was possible to conceive a
boy, speciﬁcally, and he said it was a matter of sexual technique.
And while he was sitting there, reading that book, with his thick legs
propped up on the dustbin and pointed toward me, I was able to look at him,
and I wondered how it must have felt. What must it have felt like to have
destroyed someone as utterly helpless and stupid as Spengler? A man who
was little more than an overgrown boy.
And I looked at Rupert again, leaning back comfortably in his big swivel
chair, and I wondered if his children would actually turn out to be boys. This
all happened years ago and he’s probably got children now. I wonder if they’re
boys. I hope they’re OK.
—
The day after Spengler’s disappearance, Rupert asked me to go with him for
lunch.It occurred to me that Rupert might have been doing this so that he could
explain what had happened, why he’d chosen to fuck Spengler. He knew, of
course, that I was close with Spengler, in a way, and I even brieﬂy considered
that he might be planning to apologize. But Rupert didn’t apologize, and he
didn’t explain anything. Instead, this is what he did:
Rupert wanted to go to an expensive Spanish restaurant that was located
on the west bank of the Isle of Dogs, the huge round peninsula encircled by
the River Thames in East London upon which has grown Canary Wharf. This
meant that we would not take a train or a taxi, but would rather walk beneath
the skyscrapers. It was sunny that day, but being December, little light
reached the ground as we walked.
Rupert said nothing to me as we started walking. That wasn’t unusual.
When Rupert and I were anywhere together, just the two of us, we talked
when Rupert wanted to talk. Often that wasn’t very much of the time.
Then Rupert spoke to me, neither turning his head or breaking his stride,
“Gary. You know, when you ﬁrst came to work here, we walked once
through Canary Wharf, like this, and I remember you looking up, and all
around, as we were walking, at the tops of the towers.”
He stopped talking after that, without asking a question, and his words
hung before me in the air.
I ﬁlled the silence with something anonymous and banal and some time
had passed before he picked it up again, as if I’d said nothing. “You don’t do
that anymore. You don’t look up at the skyscrapers.”
Again, he had not asked a question, and this time I just waited and
eventually he said, “You know, this place, it’s like Watership Down. The only
people you see here are the survivors. What you don’t see is the people who
lost.”
And I thought to myself, “What the fuck is Watership Down?” And I
looked it up when I went home and it’s a book about rabbits.
There was a pause after that where we didn’t talk, but just walked on, side
by side, through the cold, and the highest skyscrapers were eventually behind
us, and a little bit of sun reached us, then, on the ground.
“You know, Gary, I’ve got a problem.”This was an uncharacteristic statement from Rupert, and it took me by
surprise. He wasn’t looking at me, but forward and upward, in the direction
he was walking, toward the sky.
“Whenever I meet someone,” he continued, “I need to know immediately,
as soon as I meet them, whether they’re better than me or worse than me.”
And I didn’t say anything. I was just watching him as we were walking. I
really wanted to know what he’d say.
“And then, if they’re better than me, I hate them, I hate them, for being
better than me.”
And then a pause.
“But if they’re worse than me, then, I despise them, and it’s even worse,
because they’re worse than me. I despise them for that.”
And I didn’t say anything in response to that. What on earth could I
possibly have said? And we walked together, to the west end of the Isle of
Dogs, to that expensive Spanish restaurant by the river, and there, together,
we ate a whole baby pig.
—
There was a mad tone on the desk after that. While nobody had ever really
liked Spengler, except for me and I guess maybe JB, everyone knew what
Rupert did was wrong. You shouldn’t just fuck a guy like that. There should
have been a discussion.
It turned out that Rupert hadn’t even spoken to Caleb, he’d gone over
Caleb’s head, to Caleb’s boss, in New York—a giant slug of a man who was
unable to breathe without making loud noises and left silvery trails wherever
he went. The Slug had been visiting London a week previously, and Rupert
had gone straight to him. That meant that no one had had a say in the matter,
not even Caleb. Not JB, not Bill, and of course not Spengler himself.
The unease was palpable, and it lingered in the air, and its scent mixed in
with that of the other big question whose stench dominates every trading ﬂoor
at that time of year. The question which would one day come to dominate my
own life, the big question.Do you want to get paid?
One of the maddest of the many mad things about trading ﬂoors, back
then, was the way that the traders got paid.
That year both Billy and Hongo made over a hundred million dollars,
each, for the bank. And a couple others were not far behind. But that doesn’t
really count for anything unless you get paid. These guys were on salaries that
were far more than mine, I was sure. I guessed they were making probably,
seventy or eighty K, although I really didn’t know. But even if it was double
that, it’s a lot less than a hundred million dollars.
So how much do you get paid on a hundred million dollars? I absolutely
had no idea. The numbers were so much higher than anyone on the STIRT
desk had ever been used to that I think, quite possibly, nobody did.
It was not even certain that you would get paid at all. Do you remember
Simon Chang, from Spengler’s dinner? Three years later he would go on to
become the most proﬁtable trader in the whole of HSBC. When bonus time
came, the bank didn’t pay him anything, they just ﬁred him instead.
This created, inevitably, an atmosphere of tension. Everyone was sitting on
these huge PnL numbers, ten times more than they’d ever made for the bank
in their lives. But no one knew what they’d take home. Everyone was asking
the question. Are we gonna get paid?
Whether you got paid or not, and how much you got paid, seemed to be
based on a whole host of mysterious factors. I knew this because the traders
spoke about them all of the time. Sure, the desk had done well, that was
obvious, but the bank as a whole, even more obviously, had not had a great
year. This was a factor, apparently, and it didn’t look good.
A lot of human factors were also involved. What was the relationship like
between senior management and the desk? It would be the Slug who would
decide how much money went to Caleb, and then Caleb would divvy it up. So
what did the Slug think? Did he like us? Did he know that we called him “the
Slug”? Hopefully not. This is why Caleb had been oﬀ the desk so much of the
time. He had to butter up the Slug and the other big dogs. That’s how we’d all
be able to get paid. Nobody was better at buttering up than Caleb. There was
no better man for the job.The Rupert/Spengler thing didn’t make us look good though.
Everyone was talking about this, constantly. But no one ever spoke about
speciﬁc numbers. There’s this weird thing on the trading ﬂoor. No one ever
tells you how much they get paid. Ever. I literally thought it was a sackable
oﬀense. That’s not a joke. All of the graduates thought it was a sackable
oﬀense to tell someone your bonus. It wasn’t until years later I found out that
that wasn’t true. This meant that I had no idea of the numbers, and it never
even occurred to me that I would get paid anything at all on my measly 700K ,
which was more than 150 times smaller than Bill’s PnL.
Of course, I still wanted them to get paid though. If they got paid, I’d get
paid the next year.
—
And then, just like that, as we were all waiting around nervously for bonus
day, suddenly, Spengler was back.
Caleb didn’t have any special love for Spengler. No one did. But he damn
sure wasn’t going to let Rupert go over his head like that. He must have gone
and dropped some special magic salt on the Slug for that one, and Spengler
rolled in one day without any forewarning, shambling onto the desk with a big
sheepish grin.
Caleb hadn’t told any of us in advance that Spengler was returning, or at
least he hadn’t said anything to me, and I’m pretty sure it was just because he
wanted to see Rupert’s reaction. JB was delighted when the boy turned up. He
jumped up and grabbed him by the shoulders and was slapping him on the
side of the face. Billy was laughing and Snoopy was trying not to. Just like
everyone, I was trying to sneak glances at Rupert. He wasn’t moving. He was
sitting perfectly still, looking straight forward, one hand on his keyboard, one
hand on his mouse. His face showed not one trace of emotion, but his shirt
collar was straining to burst. Within a few months, it would be Rupert
himself who’d be gone. I wonder if he already knew.
Then Caleb went and got everyone paid.
6
BONUS DAY HAPPENS IN JANUARY, late January normally, and back in those days
it was the only thing that mattered. Laws were later passed limiting bonuses
as a multiple of salary, which led to an enormous increase in salaries and, I’m
told, a decrease in the drama and signiﬁcance of bonus day. But back then, in
early 2009, it was still a religious event.
On bonus day, each desk head gets allocated their own little meeting room,
and they call each of the traders in one at a time. The traders on the STIRT
desk would go and have their meeting with Caleb, and come back to the desk.
Of course, when they reappear on the desk, everyone’s reading their body for
signs.
To call in the ﬁrst trader, Caleb called up the desk on the phone line. At
that time, it was my job to take all the phone calls, which was a bit
problematic because no one could understand my pronunciation of the word
“Citi.” On that bonus day, it meant that I was given the privilege of sending
the ﬁrst trader over to see Caleb. It was Bill.
I couldn’t look at Bill when he came back to the desk. I don’t know why
but I just couldn’t look. When Bill came back, he told Hongo to go. When
Hongo came back he sent in Rupert. When Rupert came back, he sent
Spengler, and, like that, each of the traders went in in descending order of
PnL.
I couldn’t look at any of them. I don’t know why I felt so personally
invested. It wasn’t my day, I knew that, but still I felt sick.And then when the last trader, Snoopy, was done, he came back, and he
told me to go. I hadn’t been expecting to be called.
Caleb’s room was in the bowels of the trading ﬂoor. It was not Caleb’s
normal oﬃce and it took me some time to ﬁnd it. When I did ﬁnd it, I was
ﬁrst struck by how dark and depressing the artiﬁcially lit, windowless room
was, and how poorly matched it was to Caleb’s huge smile and sparkling eyes.
And sparkling was the word. Caleb was jubilant. It was immediately clear
he’d delivered the goods.
He sat me down and he pushed a piece of paper across the table. It was
£13,000. I’d not been expecting anything, and I was surprised.
Thirteen thousand pounds is a lot of money. I know that. But I don’t
remember any feeling of happiness. I don’t remember feeling anything, if I’m
honest. All I remember is the darkness of the room, and Caleb smiling.
Weirdly, at that moment, in that small broom cupboard of a room, I
recalled the day that I’d been expelled from school, for selling and smoking
cannabis. I had just turned sixteen and my dad, who was very religious, had
been called into school to pick me up. On the drive home, he’d not said
anything. I was pretty stoned and I was watching the houses ﬂy by, and then
he turned and he asked me one question.
“How did it feel?”
And my answer was just,
“It felt ﬁne.”
That night, in the middle of the night, I woke up, and my mum, who was
also very religious, was sitting, crying, on the end of my bed, which was the
bottom bunk of a bunk bed.
When I saw her there, I thought to myself, “Why are you crying? I’m the
one who is going to ﬁx this. Not you.”
That’s how I felt when Caleb gave me £13,000.
—
Two things happened after that bonus. The ﬁrst is that I got my ﬁrst book.
Immediately after getting my bonus, on the same day, JB took me for a coﬀeeat the little Starbucks. He told me that he’d seen how I’d been working, how
I’d been progressing, and he wanted to give me the Kiwi dollar book.
The Kiwi dollar book, more properly called the New Zealand Dollar FX
Swaps book, was a shit book. He knew that, I knew that. It was the shittest
book on the desk. But still, in a way, it was a big deal, and I recognized it as a
sign of respect.
The next thing that happened was not such a big thing, but it’s always
stayed with me. JB and Caleb insisted that I had to buy something, as a treat,
for my parents.
According to them, now that I’d got my ﬁrst bonus, that was something
that I just had to do.
Up to that point, in my whole life, I’d never bought “as a treat,” anything,
for anyone. I’d never even done it for myself. I was at a complete loss as to
what I should buy.
So Caleb asked me, “What does your dad like?”
And I told him, “He likes football, I guess.”
And that is how I came to buy my dad a Sky Sports subscription. And on
Saturdays, when previously we would go to watch Orient together, me, him,
and Harry from the street, I would instead go to Fitness First in Ilford, and lift
weights, and when I’d leave my dad would be sitting on the sofa, watching the
Premier League, which is something that neither of us had ever done in our
lives, and I’d ask him what the score was and then I’d go out.
I canceled that subscription a year later, the day I left home.
I didn’t care about the £13,000 though. And I didn’t care about the Sky
Sports. I cared a little bit about the Kiwi book, but not really. The only thing
that I really cared about, or that I really, really cared about, was that seven
hundred thousand dollars that I’d made, and how easy it had been for me to
make it. Because if I could make seven hundred thousand dollars then I could
make seven million. And that’s what I was going to do.
—It was round about then that Harry’s mum died. I don’t actually remember
who told me. Someone called me up. Was it the work phone, or my mobile
phone? I suppose it must have been my mum.
Harry grew up on my street. He’s four years younger than me. In my mind
he is always a ten-year-old, but by then he was nearly eighteen, and a big
strapping kid with strong shoulders and rosy cheeks, and whenever he could
get away with it, a ball at his feet or a beer in his hand.
When we were kids, he lived with his mum, who was a solicitor with
beautiful, curly brown hair, exactly eight doors down from my house, and
ever since he started school, when he was four or ﬁve years old, my mum
started childminding him, which meant that he’d come home with us after
school until his mum got back late in the evenings.
I’ve never had a little brother, and Harry became that for me. I always
loved computer games when I was a kid, but my parents could never aﬀord a
console or anything, and when Harry’s mum bought him a PlayStation,
neither of them could ﬁgure out how to get it to work, so I went round to his
house and set it up. After that we were inseparable. Every evening at his
house playing PlayStation, or football in the street.
Harry’s house was identical to my house, in size and in ﬂoorplan, but in no
other way. It always felt so quiet with just the two of them, whereas mine was
always crowded to bursting, and his mum was always so intellectual and
calming while mine was always wild and insane, and sometimes she’d ask me
if I wanted to stay with them for dinner, because she was cooking a
bolognese, and she’d drink red wine from a big glass while we ate it and she’d
talk about books.
I’d known she’d had cancer for a long time, but for some reason, I’d never
thought she was going to die. Maybe Harry had been thinking the same, I
don’t know. But my mum, who had also had beautiful, curly brown hair, told
me that he’d cried, when it happened, and I was angry at her when she told
that to me, because I felt like it wasn’t hers to say.
I stood up and told Caleb that I needed to go home. I didn’t give him a
reason, but he just looked at me and nodded and that meant “OK then, go
home.”And Harry wasn’t close to his dad, so I sat next to him at the funeral, and
he wore a big fat orange tie with his top two buttons undone, and he didn’t
cry, and after that I didn’t know where he’d go, but he went out to Essex, to
live with his dad.
And I spoke to JB, and I spoke to Rupert, and I spoke to Billy. I spoke to
each of them one at a time and I told them that I didn’t know what Harry was
going to do. They all knew him because he used to play football with us every
week, and they all liked him because he was that kind of guy, a good
footballer, who always passed when he could have shot, and always ready with
a joke and a smile.
The next time Harry came to play football, each of those guys went up and
they spoke to him, one at a time, and I remember watching Rupert talk to
him, with a heavy hand on his shoulder, and an honest, deep look of
openness, of intimacy, and I hoped that it was what Harry needed and I’d not
been able to give to him, and it was only then that I noticed how big Harry
had gotten, and that he wasn’t ten anymore, and I wondered if we’d move on,
together, in our lives, from there.
I don’t know who it was who did it, whether it was Rupert, or JB, or Billy,
but one of them got him a job, as a broker.
And that’s how Harry joined me in the game.
As Harry entered, Rupert left. Maybe it really is like Watership Down.
Rupert’s days had been numbered ever since he tried and failed to fuck
Spengler. Caleb was out to get him.
Caleb couldn’t fuck Rupert over properly though. Rupert was too good for
that. Rupert knew how to Cover His Arse. And so Caleb promoted him
sideways. A classic move in the City. There’s a new job available, far away.
You don’t want to go? You don’t understand, you have to go.
The speciﬁc job available for Rupert was about as far away from Caleb as
possible, in Australia: head of the Sydney STIRT desk.
I don’t know if Rupert wanted to go, but he went though. He put on a
brave face at least. He told me that it would be good for his career, and that it
was close to Vegas.
I checked a map though, I don’t think that it is.Rupert leaving meant promotions for everyone. JB got promoted to senior
euro trader, and Snoopy got promoted to junior euro trader. Hongo got given
JB’s old job—Ozzie and yen trader. Promotions and new books for everyone
then. Nothing for me. Except with Snoopy going onto the euro book, I got the
one thing that I’d really, really wanted. I got to go over and sit next to Bill.
—
And then came the big one. Probably the ﬁrst real big shock of my trading
career.
I hadn’t expected it at all. Caleb was still just twenty-nine, you know. And
when he stood up at seven thirty one morning, coming into the busiest time of
the whole day, and he marched the entire team oﬀ the desk and toward one of
the little corner oﬃces, I honestly thought someone must have died.
I had been moved into the back corner next to Bill now, and Caleb was
heading the long line of traders oﬀ the ﬂoor, so when I’d gulped down my
coﬀee and thrown oﬀ my headset to chase after them, it was JB, not Caleb,
who turned around to me and called out, “Not you Gary, someone’s got to
stay on the desk.”
And so I just stood and I watched them, and I thought to myself, “What
the fuck?”
But I didn’t think that for long because Snoopy’s speakerbox started
bleeping, and then Hongo’s, then Spengler’s, then Bill’s, and I was running
and spinning between each of them and making prices in euros and in yen
and in krona and in pounds and ﬂicking up the little switches to everybody’s
diﬀerent brokers, all of whom I knew by now, and making all the prices and
in that moment I felt just like Roy Keane, or Steven Gerrard, marshalling the
whole thing from the middle and I thought to myself, “I’ve got this, I can do
this, I’m good enough, I’ve ﬁgured this out.”
And then I thought, “Damn, I can do this all by myself, maybe I don’t need
the rest. Maybe just me, Snoopy and Bill…”
And I was so taken by this wild dance that I didn’t even notice that all the
traders had marched their way back to the desk, and Billy punched me sohard in the shoulder that my Bluetooth headset fell oﬀ of my head and he
shouted, “Caleb’s gone and fucking quit!!!”
—
Caleb was leaving, Caleb was retiring at just twenty-nine, Caleb had got
married and just become a father, and was going to build a big fuck-oﬀ house
in California and spend the rest of his life there as a family man. Nice for
him, I suppose.
What did it mean for me?
My ﬁrst thought, of course, was concern.
Caleb was the guy who hired me. Caleb was my big sponsor. It had been
Caleb who had promised me that I would be able to trade from day one. I was
still only just twenty-two. It was highly unconventional for a guy of my age
and experience to be allowed to run their own trades, to have their own PnL.
What if the new boss didn’t keep to that deal?
Then there was the question of who the next boss would be. Would it be
someone from the desk? Would someone be brought in from outside? Billy,
having been the most proﬁtable trader in the whole bank in the previous year,
would surely be oﬀered the job as a matter of course, but we all knew that he
wouldn’t take it. Billy hated the bigwigs and made no attempt to hide it, the
only thing he wanted was to trade. Taking the promotion would mean more
time politicking and less time trading. No, there was no way that Billy would
take it. Snoopy was convinced that if Billy didn’t take it then they’d oﬀer it to
one of the Slug’s traders from New York, a horrible guy who looked like a
frog.
But of course Caleb leaving was not the only new piece of information.
Caleb was leaving to build his own house, in Northern California, and never to
work again, at the age of twenty-nine. How the fuck much money had this
guy made? I knew that the desk had made a lot of money the previous year, it
had probably made about half a billion dollars in total, but I didn’t know such
things could be possible. And even the concept: leaving, retiring, at twenty-
nine. What did that mean?—
I had two leaving dinners with Caleb. One was a huge dinner, with the whole
desk, out in the early May sunshine, in the same Spanish restaurant by the
water where me and Rupert had eaten the pig.
The weather was turning, and it was beautiful. The sun had its warmth
again and the evenings were getting later and the mood was one of joyous
celebration. Everyone was happy for Caleb. Caleb was living the dream.
Every trader on the trading ﬂoor talks about quitting. They say, “I’ll go
next year, after my next bonus. These fuckers don’t deserve me, I’ll go next
year…”
But no one ever actually goes, not till they get pushed.
Traders talk dreamily of a house in the mountains, or by the sea, of the
family that they’ll have in the countryside. The younger ones, who might still
be single, talk of travel, of how they’ll cycle to India, of how they will sail to
Chile.
But no one actually goes.
But here he was, Caleb was going. Twenty-nine years old, still young and
still handsome. He hadn’t lost any of his hair yet; not even the ﬁrst hint of
gray. What a hero. He was doing what everyone wanted to do, and he hadn’t
pissed anyone oﬀ. Well, no one I liked, anyway.
We all sat around this long rectangular table, and on it were endless plates
with little bits of cheese and chorizo and olives and other things that I didn’t
understand, and if I’m totally honest I didn’t really like that kind of food, I
would have rather have had a proper dinner, but I was glad to be with
everyone, laughing and eating and joking as the high sun sank into the river,
and I was just happy there was no baby pig.
At one point, Billy asked Caleb, “What about your deferred stock?”
Which was a question I didn’t know the meaning of, but Caleb smiled that
smile that I recognized from the Trading Game, the smile of a man who can’t
lose, so he caught my attention, and I watched as he answered,
“Don’t worry, I took care of it.”
“Charity?”“Charity.”
“But the Slug though?”
“One year with no bonus.”
“And he took that?”
“He did.”
And the other traders were not really listening, but I was shifting my gaze
between Caleb, who was nodding deeply and smiling, and Billy, who looked
much more serious but was nodding as well, and though I didn’t understand
what they were talking about, I remembered it. It would turn out to be
important that I did.
Then, later, as the sun had almost set, and everyone was well drunk, JB
asked Caleb, “Do you have any regrets?”
And Caleb looked out to the sunset, and he thought for a while, and then
he said, “Only one, that we couldn’t fuck Rupert. But don’t worry. Give it
time. We will.”
And we all laughed and we all raised our glasses, and we drank beer until
late in the night.
—
I had one more leaving dinner with Caleb, just me and him this time.
Actually, it was more of a leaving lunch.
Caleb came up to me after he made his announcement to the desk. He
apologized that I couldn’t have been there in the meeting when he told
everyone, but I understood, and he apologized for leaving so soon after hiring
me, and for making promises that he now couldn’t keep. He told me he’d
make sure that I would be looked after, and that, to make it up to me, he
would take me out for lunch to any place that I wanted, and that I could ask
him any one question and he’d answer truthfully.
I asked him to take me to Chili’s. They do good buﬀalo wings there. With
the blue cheese dip. So we went.
Since we used to start early on the STIRT desk, we ate lunch quite early as
well, and when we got into Chili’s, which was a huge and well-lit fast-foodrestaurant high up somewhere in the Canary Wharf shopping center, it was
not yet midday and totally empty. I got my buﬀalo wings.
It was sad, sitting there, just the two of us, in that big, open restaurant. We
sat opposite one another on a small, square, plastic table, separated by
twenty-four buﬀalo wings and two small pots of blue cheese dip. Only seven
years of age were between us, but there, sitting across from me, and double
my size, to a stranger he might have looked like my dad.
I looked at him. Huge head framed by that black helmet of thick dark hair.
He looked tired. But he looked happy. He looked like a man who had ﬁnished
his work. At that time, I had known him for two and a half years. I knew that
I’d miss him. It had, a little bit, that feeling of the last day of primary school.
You know you’ll miss your friends, and your teacher, but you don’t know
what to say.
I didn’t tell him any of that, of course.
“So,” I looked him dead in the eye, “I get one question?”
“That’s right.”
He was smiling broadly and squinting slightly from the bright light of the
sun, which was coming through a skylight and scattering sharp beams all over
our table.
“And you’re gonna answer it honestly?”
“Of course I will, Gazza.”
Big smile, widening.
“Any question I want?”
“Any question you want.”
I put down the wing I’d been holding.
“What do I need to do to get paid a hundred thousand pounds?”
Caleb laughed loudly and reeled backward; he placed down his own wing,
now just bone.
“A hundred thousand pounds? Bonus??”
“A hundred thousand pounds. Bonus.”
There was a pause while he looked at me incredulously.
“It’s not possible. You can’t make that in your ﬁrst full year.”Caleb laughed again, but I wasn’t laughing. I held his gaze. I was only
twenty-two years old at that time. I tried my best to look like a man.
Caleb stopped laughing.
“Tell me what I need to do, and I’ll do it.”
He was starting to see I was serious now, but his answer still remained the
same.
“You can’t get a hundred-thousand-pound bonus in your ﬁrst year as a
trader. It’s not possible. You just can’t do it.”
“Tell me what I need to do, and I’ll do it.”
Caleb didn’t say anything for a while. He brought his hand to his chin, and
he watched me.
“You’d have to make ten million dollars for the bank.”
That afternoon I went to the printer next to the desk and I opened it up and
took out two blank, white A4 pieces of paper.
At the top of the ﬁrst piece of paper I wrote, “12 MILLION DOLLARS,”
in big capitals. The extra two million dollars were margin for error. Under
that I wrote out ﬁve trades, each calculated to make exactly twelve million
dollars proﬁt for the year. The trades were:
1. Lend one billion dollars one year Swissy FX Swap
2. Lend one billion dollars one year Yen FX Swap
3. Lend 1.3 billion dollars one year Sterling FX Swap
4. Lend 1.5 billion dollars one year Canada FX Swap
5. Lend 1.4 billion dollars one year Stokkie FX Swap.
I folded the piece of paper up and I put it in my desk drawer.
I wrote the exact same thing on the second piece of paper, folded that one
up, put it in the back pocket of my trousers, took it home, and kept it in my
underwear drawer which was under my bed.
They were big trades and I was too junior to execute them. Plus, they
weren’t my currencies. They were other people’s books.
How could I get one of them on?7
CALEB’S ACTUAL LAST DAY WAS in late May. He’d already moved all his stuﬀ oﬀ
of the desk in the previous week, and so on the day itself there was not much
to do but shake all of our hands. He left in the afternoon, a couple of hours
before the end of the workday. It was probably about 3 p.m .
As he walked oﬀ the desk, and started walking down the aisle, JB shouted
down the hoot, “Caleb Zucman is leaving the building!”
And we all stood up and started clapping, and then everyone else on the
whole ﬂoor stood up and clapped too.
And I watched the huge back of the great, hulking man walking oﬀ, all
alone, down the aisle. The ﬁrst trader I’d ever known. And he didn’t turn or
raise a hand or acknowledge the applause in any way. He simply walked oﬀ
and didn’t look back.
—
We all wanted to know who the new boss would be. Bill turned it down, like
we knew that he would. We were all worried that it would be the Frog, from
New York. But it wasn’t the Frog, it was Chuck.
Chuck Mathieson was a giant.
I know I have liberally described traders as large throughout this book, and
that is probably because almost all of them were incomparably larger than
me. Chuck was the biggest, by a lot.Chuck was Canadian. I’d never been to Canada back then. He was
probably from Toronto or Vancouver or another of the big cities, but the
moment I saw him I imagined him as a lumberjack in some frozen, snowy
wasteland, carrying huge trees to his home, on his back. He must have been
about six foot seven. Despite a bulbous stomach that he carried quite
gracefully, he did not come across as a fat man, merely as a giant. An honest
goliath. Belying his size was a friendly face that prevented him from being
intimidating, although I only ever really saw it from below. In his early ﬁfties,
square jawed, with a crisply cut salt-and-pepper side parting, he looked a
little bit like an enormous version of my father. His combination of gigantism
and amiability captured me, and I was intrigued to know more of the man.
Chuck was a legend of the trading ﬂoor. He traded the Russian rouble. As
you know, the STIRT desk traded only “rich-world,” “Western” currencies.
Places where the trains ran on time. The currencies of countries like Russia
and India and Brazil got traded on the “Emerging market” desks, which
physically sat not far from our desk, but might as well have been a diﬀerent
world. Chuck had been trading the rouble since before I was born. People
said he knew Vladimir Putin.
While none of us on the STIRT desk knew Chuck personally, his
reputation and size preceded him. Whenever he stood up and walked around
the trading ﬂoor his vertiginous head bounced over the tops of the screen-
walls so everyone on the trading ﬂoor could see where he was at any given
time. In the weeks after Caleb left, the rumor started to spread that he was
going to be the new boss. This is how I found out that the rumor was true.
After Caleb’s departure, there was no desk head until such time as a new
one was appointed, and there was also no Swiss franc trader. As a result, Bill
had to ﬁll in as temporary manager and I had to ﬁll in as temporary Swiss
franc trader. This wasn’t like covering for someone: the trades themselves did
not go into Caleb’s book, which no longer existed; rather, they went into
mine. The Swiss franc book was a decently proﬁtable book, back in those
days, and I was making a fair bit of cash.
Bill hated managing and Bill hated admin, and since I was Bill’s junior, a
lot of admin rolled down to me. That meant that I often had to stay behindafter everyone had gone home, which I didn’t mind, because, as I’ve said, I
was making the cash.
In one of those late afternoons, about two or three weeks into this period, I
was the only person left on the desk, doing boring admin, sending emails and
booking some trades. Chuck, who had not yet been formally announced as
the new head of the STIRT desk, wandered over to the desk, and to me.
I looked up at Chuck. With me seated and him standing, the distance
between our faces was enormous. In order to look at me, Chuck had to bend
his neck fully forward, as if looking down at his own shoes. He was positively
beaming. I smiled.
Chuck oﬀered me a hand, which I shook. He already knew my name.
“Hi Gary, I’m Chuck.”
Then he wandered oﬀ to get a chair to sit in. Because all the other STIRT
traders had gone home, there were empty chairs everywhere, so this should
not have been a procedure, but for some reason he disappeared and it took
him about two minutes. Maybe he needed a reinforced chair.
Chuck eventually returned and slowly rolled the chair in next to me, and
lowered himself into it in installments. The incredible size and weight of the
man lent a great gravity to all of his movements. I felt very much like a boy.
Once Chuck had gotten himself into the chair, he didn’t say anything, he
simply smiled mischievously at me, for some time.
I didn’t quite know what to do with this, so I smiled back myself,
somewhat awkwardly, and continued booking my trades.
That went on for about two minutes, which was utterly ridiculous, and then
Chuck leaned in and said simply, “Hey.”
He was still smiling like a madman, or maybe more like a schoolboy, so I
turned round to him and said, “Hey?”
At this point, Chuck brought his right hand around, which I hadn’t realized
he’d been hiding behind his back the whole time. In the hand was a copy of
the magazine Sports Illustrated, which, as you probably know, is some kind of
swimsuit magazine.
I looked at the front cover of the magazine and then I looked back at
Chuck’s face. He was wiggling his eyebrows at me.Chuck opened the magazine. Not in such a way as to read it himself, but
in such a way that made it clear that we were both to look at the pictures,
together. The picture was a double-page spread of a woman in a bikini.
I looked at the picture and I looked back at Chuck. He was still wiggling
his eyebrows. He wiggled them for a little bit longer, and then he said,
“Yeah. You like that, huh?”
And of course, I replied, “Yeah. Yeah it’s nice.”
And so Chuck turned the page.
On the next page was another double-page spread of a woman in a bikini.
I looked at Chuck with his wiggling eyebrows and he said, “Mmmm, yeah.
That’s real nice.”
So I said, “Yeah, that’s nice.”
And I nodded a bit.
This then went on for a long time, far longer than could possibly be
reasonably explained. I didn’t quite know what was going on, but I realized,
perhaps on the third or fourth bikini, that it must indeed be true that Chuck
was the new head of the desk. There was no other possible explanation. The
feeling established itself with greater certainty as we worked our way through
the magazine.
Eventually we ﬁnished, with all the bikinis, and Chuck rolled up the
magazine and stuﬀed it into his ample trouser pocket. Then he stopped
smiling and looked meaningfully oﬀ into the distance as if, now that
introductions were over, he could ﬁnally get down to business.
“So, what do you do then, on the desk?”
I looked Chuck in the face, and Chuck looked at me, and suddenly, Chuck
looked very young.
It was simply inconceivable that Chuck, who within a week would be
taking over the STIRT desk, did not know what my actual job was. Wasn’t it?
Or was it?
I looked him in the face, deeply, and I tried to take a measure of the man.
What was he doing here? Was this a bluﬀ?
Since Caleb had been the Swiss franc trader, I had assumed that the new
boss would take over that role, and I would be left as humble Kiwi trader andcover for Bill. Surely Chuck knew that was my job. Or did he?
I kept looking at him. Was it a game? Was he clueless? I tried to read it in
his face. I probably looked at him for longer than I should have done, because
after a while, he started to smile again. That big, wide, mischievous, childish
grin returned to his face, and then, as he smiled at me, I started to smile too,
and I said to him, “I’m the Swiss franc trader, Chuck. I’m the Swiss franc
trader.”
And Chuck kept on smiling and he started to nod real deeply, and then he
lifted himself, slowly, out of his reinforced chair and he kept looking up at
me at intervals while he was doing it, and nodding. And then he got himself
back round the side of the chair and he started to roll it away with him, and as
he was leaving, he turned back to me one last time and he said, “It was really
nice to meet you Gary. I’m looking forward to working with you.”
And then Chuck left and I was alone on the desk once again, and I sat and
thought about what had just happened.
And then I ﬂicked up the switch to a guy called Morley, who was my
favorite Swiss broker, and I started shouting his name, “Morley! Morley! You
still there?”
And I ﬂicked the switch down and a bit later Morley’s cockney voice sang
back at me, “You alrite, Gal? What you doing still here?”
“Don’t worry about that mate, listen, do you reckon you can get me some
one-year? I wanna lend US dollars.”
“Well, everyone’s gone home mate, but I can maybe get you some from
New York. How much you wanna do?”
“I wanna do about a yard mate.”
A yard is a billion dollars.
And I did it. I became the Swiss franc trader. And I did trade number one
from the sheet that I wrote.
And by the end of the year, it had made me just over twelve million
dollars.
Which is exactly what I wrote on the sheet.
8
NOBODY HAD EVER MADE TEN million dollars in their ﬁrst year before. They told
me that once it was done.
I suppose, then, that raises the question: why was it that I was the ﬁrst?
I’d like to tell you that it was for my intelligence, or maybe because I was
brave.
That nobody had ever had the nerve before, to put on such big trades at
such a young age.
The truth is, though, those weren’t the main reasons, although I suppose
they may have played their parts. There were two main reasons I made so
much money that year: it was easy, and it was allowed.
It was easy because everyone was doing it. Everyone was still doing that
same trade. Lending dollars out for the long term, at 2%, and borrowing them
back, every day, for free.
And it was allowed, I suppose, for the same reason. Because everybody
around me was doing it, all of them on a much bigger scale. Bill made a
hundred million dollars again in 2009, for the second year in a row, and
became, once more, the most proﬁtable trader in the bank. No one else made
a hundred million dollars, but a couple made seventy-ﬁve. Who was there to
be concerned with me? Sitting in my corner, scraping by to make twelve
million bucks. No one cared. Hell, even Snoopy made thirty that year.
Sometimes Chuck lumbered over to me like a pine tree and cast his huge
shadow over my screens. In those moments he wouldn’t say anything. He’d
simply smile the smile of the mad or the enlightened and rock my chair gentlybackward and forward while looking away. I think it is genuinely possible that
he still did not know what my job was.
Of course, beyond the question of how I was able to do it, there’s a bigger
question: how were all of us able to do it? Why were we all allowed to do the
same huge trades, and make so much money? Wasn’t there a risk, if we all
did the same trade, of it all going horribly wrong?
It wasn’t until midway through 2009 that I even thought to put that
question to Billy, and he told me that right at the beginning of the crisis,
Caleb had gone to the big bosses—not just the Slug, but the Slug’s boss, and
the Slug’s boss’s boss—and he’d gotten special dispensation for us all to do
the same trade. The way Billy told it was that, if the trade made money, we
all would make money—Billy, me, Chuck, the Slug, the Slug’s boss, all the
way up. Hell, even the CEO got paid on our PnL. If it went wrong, the whole
banking system would blow up, and we’d all lose our jobs, so who cared.
That’s why it was allowed. A ﬁsh rots from the head down, I guess.
I looked over at Chuck and I wondered if what Chuck was doing, and what
all of us were doing, was wrong somehow. Chuck was smiling and nodding,
at nobody, like he always did. He had just poured an enormous pile of loose
change out onto his desk, from his drawer. He was counting the individual
coins and placing them into piles.
—
You might think that making my ﬁrst twelve million dollars would have been
a big thing for me, a thing I’d remember. You might think that I’d have a clear
image in my mind of a grand seminal moment. Something to treasure to this
day.
In reality though, it happens slowly, a bit at a time, by degrees.
It took me over six months to make that twelve million dollars. That’s only
two million dollars each month. What’s that then? A hundred thousand
dollars a day? A little bit less?
And that’s how it really was, dripping in, every day, a hundred thousand
dollars here, a hundred thousand dollars there. Maybe only ﬁfty thousanddollars one day.
And what was I doing while it was happening? What do I remember of
that time?
You know, numbers are powerful. Numbers can hypnotize you. And I
remember every day that spreadsheet was going around with everybody’s
name on it, and everyone’s number. And my number was slowly ticking
upward. One million dollars. Two million dollars.
Late one evening, on a weekend, I saw my best friend’s car, a little pokey
silver Peugeot 106, stopped up at a traﬃc light in Shoreditch, so I ran over
and started knocking on the window, and when the window rolled down there
was a girl’s face there, looking straight at me, with big bow lips and short,
black hair, and it was the most beautiful thing that I’d ever seen, and she
became my ﬁrst serious girlfriend.
Three million dollars. Four million dollars.
Gordon Brown was talking one day in parliament, about taxing the banks,
and when that happened I felt a pang in my heart, but I looked around at
Billy, and he was shaking JB by the shoulders and they were both laughing,
and Big Chuck was laughing as well, and even though I didn’t really
understand what was happening, I took a big breath in and I breathed it all
out. We would be OK.
Five million dollars. Five and a half million dollars.
She lived in northwest London so I needed a car to get to her, and my
friend needed £750 because he was studying Fashion Design at Central Saint
Martins and he needed to buy a mannequin with collapsible shoulders, so I
gave him £710 for his Peugeot and he borrowed the rest from his mum.
Six million dollars, seven million dollars.
And Harry was living out in Essex, with his dad, now, but whenever I got
time I’d drive out to get him and we’d go to the gym, and I’d ask him how his
job was going and he’d say that it was going really well, and I’d ask him how
things were going with his dad and he’d say they were OK.
Eight million dollars, nine million dollars.
And every weekend I’d drive round to her tiny studio apartment in
northwest London, and I’d stay there all weekend, and the walls were coveredin hand-drawn pictures of deer skeletons, and the ﬂoor was covered with bits
of material and clothes, and when the winter came, she refused to turn the
heating on, because she said it was too expensive and that she could save
money that way.
Ten million dollars. Eleven million dollars.
My dad was still watching Sky Sports in the evenings and the weekends,
but that was OK, because I wasn’t at home much anyway. My friends couldn’t
get jobs because of the ﬁnancial crisis, so whenever I was free, I’d just hang
out with them and play PlayStation and bust jokes.
Twelve million dollars.
Job done.
—
It wasn’t until ten million dollars that I even really stopped to look up. It was
the end of November by then.
Winter is a strange time to be a trader. It’s cold and pitch-black on the way
in and it’s cold and pitch-black when you leave.
I didn’t really have a proper coat back in those days. Just this skinny little
black kind of pea coat kind of thing that I bought from Topman for I think
£30. I’ve still got it. To avoid getting cold in the mornings I used to sprint all
the way to the station and time it to get there for exactly when the train
arrived. I couldn’t time it for the second train though, which would be sitting,
frozen, waiting for me on the platform at Stratford, and I remember standing,
perched on the little window seat cushion at the end of the carriage, shivering,
waiting for the train to start and to plunge underground.
We’d work for the ﬁrst two hours in darkness, and then, slowly, the sun
would come up over a horizon that we couldn’t see for the thick clouds, and
would take us from a blackness into a dark gray. We’d work for ﬁve hours, in
the grayness, then the blackness, again, and then all of us would get up and go
home.
By this time I was well established as Bill’s junior, and Caleb and Rupert
were both gone. The only person who I bought lunch for was Bill, and I woulddo that every day. The takeaway lunch restaurants are all buried in the
underground shopping center, which you can access directly from the
Citigroup building, but I’d take the long route through the park at the back of
the building, every day, just to get outside and see if I could ﬁnd the sun. Bill
himself rarely left the oﬃce. I wondered when he saw the sun. I imagined he
lived in some big, luxurious country manor. I guessed they had sun in those
places on the weekends.
In December the trading ﬂoor starts to wind down and the world becomes
one never-ending broker lunch. I was through ten million dollars by then, but
not quite at twelve yet, which had immediately become my new target, so I
didn’t take my eye oﬀ the ball, but it was diﬃcult because every broker and
trader in the City said that I owed them at least one Christmas drink.
Billy and JB were taking me out frequently, which was a signiﬁcant
improvement on Rupert and Spengler, and I started to realize how much the
two drank. I got a text from Hongo one time saying he was in a bar down in
the Canary Wharf main square drinking with JB, but he needed to go home,
so could I come and take JB oﬀ his hands. When I got there, JB was
staggering and swearing, and Hongo dropped him onto my shoulder and went
to the bathroom.
I slumped JB onto a stool and balanced him a bit from his shoulders, the
way you might balance a vase on a plinth. He tottered slightly, then slumped
forward oﬀ of the chair and back onto me again, and I could see he was going
to cry.
He started saying something about his sister being sick, back in Australia,
and how he wanted to go back and see her, and I looked over both my
shoulders to see if anyone was looking at us, and I saw Hongo was coming
back, so I started slapping JB on the cheek and whispered, “Come on mate.
Hong’s coming back. None of that boss, yeah? None of that.”
And JB looked left and saw Hongo and he started laughing, and he
pinched my nose so hard that I had a bruise on it for the next four days.
We all went out in central London for a team Christmas dinner at Nobu,
which is some super fancy restaurant that is supposed to be Japanese, but to
be honest is just Mayfair, and Bill drank so much that I had to take him to thebathroom, and while I was hobbling him over there like a physio carrying an
injured footballer he suddenly started and jumped and grabbed me by the
shoulders and started shouting, “MAIKYKANE!” in my ear.
“MAIKKKAIM! MYKOKAIN!” he was shouting, and slurring his k’s
considerably.
I had no idea what he was saying. I thought it was something about
cocaine, but I was pretty sure Billy didn’t do that, so I was leaning in and
asking him what the fuck was going on but all he could do was shout,
“MAIIKKYYKAIMMM,” about seven more times.
Then, suddenly, Michael Caine emerged from the darkness and walked
right past Bill’s shoulder and in my shock I let go of Bill and he started to reel
backward and he pointed right in my face and shouted, “It’s MICHAEL
CAINE you fucking cockney TWAT!”
And then he fell backward onto the ﬂoor.
—
Back at home, my parents had put the Christmas tree up, and three stockings
on the wall. One for my brother, one for my sister, one for me.
The Christmas tree was not huge, but it ﬁlled the whole living room, such
that you could not watch TV from either of the sofas, and instead you had to
wedge yourself between the TV and the tree. That was ﬁne for me, I never
watched TV anyway.
Whenever I got back late that Christmas, after drinking, all the lights
would be oﬀ in the house, but the Christmas tree’s fairy lights would be on
and lighting up the living room. In purples, in oranges, then pinks. It
reminded me of being a kid. Maybe I still was a kid.
I didn’t buy anyone any presents that year. But they still all bought presents
for me.
9
I WASN’T SCARED ABOUT BONUS day. I mean, I knew, didn’t I? I knew what it was
going to be. Caleb had told me. Ten million dollars was a hundred thousand
pounds. So twelve million dollars had to be something like one twenty.
There hadn’t really been any big reason why I picked a hundred thousand
pounds that day, in that conversation with Caleb. I guess it had simply been
the biggest amount of money that I could imagine, back at that time. It was a
crazy big amount to me. You’ve got to remember, just four years before that,
I had been delivering newspapers, every day, for £12 a week. After that, I had
been ﬂuﬃng pillows for £40 a day and even that had felt like a lot of money
to me. I was still living with my mum, you know? A hundred thousand
pounds was inconceivable. I couldn’t even imagine what you could do with
that.
So I wasn’t scared on the day itself. Not a bit. What I do remember is that
I had expected to be called into the room last, because the previous year had
been done in reverse order of PnL, and my PnL was the lowest on the desk.
But what actually happened was that Bill got called in ﬁrst, as I had expected,
and when Bill came back to the desk he told me to go in.
The bonus meetings weren’t in the broom cupboard that year. Big Chuck
had somehow snagged a beautiful oﬃce right on the corner of the building,
with windows facing out over the quay in two directions. That was such a Big
Chuck thing to do. It was sunny that day, I remember. And Big Chuck was
sitting there in the sun, with his hands ﬂat on his knees, super calm andplacidly smiling, like a huge golden statue of Buddha. Honestly, I can see the
whole thing vividly, I remember this like it was yesterday.
Big Chuck didn’t say nothing. He just smiled. I sat down opposite him,
and I placed my hands on my knees to mirror the man. There was a single
white A4 piece of paper placed perfectly centrally on the table between us,
angled so as to face neither one of us, pointing, instead, toward the door.
I looked at Chuck, and he looked down at me, calmly, and it was quickly
clear he was not going to speak. So, instead I looked down at the paper.
There were some words at the top of the paper. My name, including my
middle name, Gary Walter Stevenson. Beneath that was a small table with a
number of numbers. None of them were the number I was expecting, which
was, as you know, £120,000.
I realized that there were a few more sheets of paper under the top sheet,
but I was near certain that the number itself would be here on the front page.
I pointed at the ﬁrst number at the top of the table, which was the largest:
£395,000.
“Is it that number?”
There was no strategy behind me saying that. In fact, I don’t remember the
actual saying of the words. I remember it happening. I remember seeing my
arm reaching out and pointing, and hearing the words that I was speaking.
I looked up at Chuck. Chuck started to smile broadly with his whole face
and his eyes, and very gently, he started to laugh.
“Yes, it’s that number.”
“Wow,” I said. “That’s a lot of money.”
I remember that. I remember that so clearly. Then after that, everything’s
blank.
The next memory I have I am back in my seat. I am at my desk, right hand
on my mouse, left hand on my keyboard, and ridiculously, absurdly,
pathetically, I am feeling that I am going to cry, and I’m trying not to cry.
I feel, on my right cheek, that Billy is looking at me. And I turn
instinctively to see if he is actually looking at me, and he is, so immediately,
too quickly, I look back. And I’m holding it but I’m clearly not holding it very
well.And Bill stands up and he comes round to the left side of me so that he is
between me and the other traders on the desk, so that the other traders can’t
see me, and he puts both of his palms ﬂat down on the desk and he leans in
very close to me and he says, “Go outside. Go sit down in the park for a bit.
Take a moment. You’ll feel better. It’s OK.”
And the next memory I have I am sitting down, like a child, on the grass in
the park, and it’s really not a park at all but a medium-sized square of grass
surrounded on three sides by enormous skyscrapers, but at that time of the
day the sun is on the fourth side, so between the long shadows I am sitting in
the sun.
And in my daze, I’d forgotten to bring anything, my scarf, or my jacket,
even the black ﬁngerless gloves that I often wore on the desk because I got
cold when I was working, and I suddenly realize how cold I am, but at least
there is sun.
And the ﬁrst thing I thought of, when my senses came back to me, was my
dad.
My dad worked for the Post Oﬃce for thirty-ﬁve years, and when I was
very young, he used to start work very early, before I woke up. As you know,
the train from Seven Kings into the City used to run right past my bedroom
window, and my mum used to come into my room and gently wake me up,
very early, in the pitch-black of the nighttime, to look out of the window, and
try to catch sight of my dad in the train as it ﬂew past.
Sometimes the trains were very fast, and it was all a blur, and I wasn’t able
to catch him. But other times, the trains were slower, and I was able to see
him, all lit up in the warm glow of the train carriage lights, always looking
back out of his own window, for me, and smiling and waving.
And then, because it would still be very early and dark and cold then,
especially in the winter, I’d go back to sleep and my dad would be at work.
And I wouldn’t see him again until late in the evening, or, at least, what
seemed to be very late in the evening to me, then just a young child, and he
was always tired then, and he was always friendly even though he was tired.
And I thought of all the years that he’d done that, woken up early, gotten
the early morning train, in the dark, in the cold, come back late, in the dark,in the cold. For us. For me, I guess. For what? Twenty thousand pounds a
year?
And here was me, small in the shadow of the skyscrapers that had grown
around me as a boy, sitting, cross-legged, with no jacket and no scarf, in a
small triangle of light, on a small square of grass, just turned twenty-three
years old, and just having received three hundred and ninety ﬁve thousand
pounds.
What could that mean?
I sat there for a while, in the cold, and I calmed myself. And I thought of
the other dads. I thought of this guy Ibran Khan who I went to primary school
with, and his dad was disabled and he didn’t have his own bedroom and he
slept on a sofa in the front room, so he didn’t have to climb the stairs, but they
were all very kind to me. And they gave me food that was too spicy for me to
eat and they gave me tea that was too spicy for me to drink. Why hadn’t I
kept in touch with him? Where were they now? And I thought of another boy
called Muzzamil, who came over from Pakistan when we must have been just
seven or eight, and he couldn’t speak English, and he would spend all
playtime and lunchtime just running around endlessly doing cartwheels and
shouting the only word he could say that we would understand, which was his
own name. “Muzzamil! Muzzamil! Muzzamil!”
What could all of that mean?
And the next thought was, what do I do now?
And the thought after that was, what did the rest of them make? If I made
£395,000 on twelve million dollars, then what did Hong make, on his
seventy? What had Rupert made the previous year, with eighty million
dollars? What did Bill make on one hundred million dollars, two years in a
row?
And what about the credit traders, with the pink monogrammed shirts,
who had blown up the world? What had they made before they blew up the
world?
And then I thought: It was so easy to make twelve million dollars. I can
make twenty. I can make ﬁfty. Maybe I can make a hundred. I was smarter
than Rupert. I was smarter than JB. I knew it. Maybe I wasn’t as smart as Bill,but if I really put myself into it, I could get there. I was deﬁnitely smarter than
the credit guys in the pink shirts. I could make more.
And what would it mean if I could make ﬁfty? Maybe I’d get paid two
million pounds. What could I do with two million pounds? What couldn’t you
do? You could do anything. You could retire. You could be free. You could
be your own man. You could build a house in Northern California, maybe.
You could sail to Chile. Maybe. Where’s Chile again? Maybe I can do it. No,
not maybe, I know I can do it! Why should the pink shirt guys and the
Ruperts be millionaires and not the Ibrans and the Muzzamils and not me?
Why not me? I’m not worse than them. I’m better than them. We’re all better
than them. And I’m better than all of them. I’m the best. I can be the best.
And I think there, in that cold January sun something about me changed,
and my career changed, and it wasn’t a career anymore. From then on, it was
bank robbery.
