1
WHEN I GOT BACK TO London the whole fucking desk was gone. I mean that—
the desk wasn’t there. Over by the window were a bunch of fucking sales
guys, and we’d been moved right into the middle of the ﬂoor. We were
making too much money to be hidden in the corner. They wanted us where
they could see us.
I was sad about losing my seat by the window, but worst of all, I lost my
seat next to Bill.
Chuck pulled me into an oﬃce before I could say anything. Billy was
going into semi-retirement. He was going to stop quoting the Sterling FX
swap book. He was just going to sit in the corner, taking massive bets on the
UK economy, while Snoopy sat next to him and quoted the book.
Motherfuckers. I’d been covering Bill for a whole year at that point, all the
while digging myself out of the grave, and now the fuckers had given the
book to Snoopy without even telling me. Motherfuckers.
They had a plan that was supposed to appease me. Snoopy taking the
Sterling book meant a space was opened up on the euro book, working with
JB. They wanted me to be the junior euro trader. I didn’t wanna be the euro
trader, I wanted to be the sterling trader. Yes, I know this place is a shithole,
but it’s my shithole. I told that to Chuck. He was stroking his chin.
I didn’t speak to Billy for two days. I didn’t speak to no one. I think it was
then that I started breaking pens. Snoopy quoted both the sterling and the
euros for two days before Billy took me into a room and told me to stop being
a cunt.So that’s how I became the junior euro trader.
Junior euro trader is a good job. The only trader who ever made a hundred
bucks in a year other than Bill was Hongo, and he did that because he was the
junior euro trader. That raises the question—if junior euro trader was such a
good job, then why the fuck was it given to me?
The answer is that junior euro trader was a fucking lot of work.
This is how it works. Junior euro trader only quotes very short-term euro
FX swaps, one month or less. Senior trader gets everything else. Short-term
FX swaps are low on risk, low on proﬁt and low on excitement. But there’s a
fucking lot of them.
As we’ve discussed, corporations and pension funds and hedge funds use
FX swaps to borrow money. But FX swaps are primarily short-term
instruments, mainly one year or less—and companies need to borrow money
for longer than that. That’s not really a problem, because you can just borrow
money for three months at a time and come back again every three months.
Some companies choose to do it like that, quarterly, others choose yearly or
six monthly, whereas others choose to roll those trades every week or even
every day. If you borrow money six months at a time, you only need to do
two trades a year, but if you are borrowing that money daily, you need to do
two hundred and ﬁfty trades a year (we are closed on holidays and
weekends). That is why the junior euro trader has a lot of fucking work. The
amount of risk that might take JB two or four trades a year, is going to take
me two hundred and ﬁfty trades a year. The end result is, with no
exaggeration, that the junior euro trader does more trades than all of the other
traders on the desk put together. If you can hold it together, you can make a lot
of money. If you can hold it together. There was a reason that both Snoopy
and Hongo had given the book up.
—
So just like that, I was the euro dealer. But I wasn’t there to get business cards
made. I was there to be the best trader in the world. So what was the plan?For starters, I had to move seats. The new seat I had been given was
between JB and Chuck. I loved JB and I loved Chuck. I still do. But JB never
stopped talking my ear oﬀ and Chuck had this whole “communing with other
worlds” vibe going on that was kind of messing with my hustle. I told Chuck
that I needed my own junior, and that I was going to sit with him on the end
of the desk.
The kid that I wanted was Titzy Lazzari.
Titzy Lazzari’s real name was Fabrizio. I called him Titzy because he
hated it.
Titzy turned up on the desk in 2009 as a twenty-two-year-old summer
intern wearing the world’s shiniest silver suit, and he refused to shave oﬀ his
scruﬀy designer stubble when Chuck had demanded it. I knew right then I
wanted him as my junior.
Titzy was bristly and wiry in both physique and temperament. He had a
mousey look, although not without being handsome, and he argued with me
and Snoopy incessantly.
Titzy used to drink single espressos. Snoopy told him, not incorrectly, that
a double espresso only cost ten pence more. Titzy had replied that he’d known
that, but a single was all that he wanted. Snoopy told him that if he liked
single espressos, he could buy a double and pour half of it into a separate cup,
and that way get two for 65 pence each, instead of paying £1.20 at a time.
Titzy acknowledged the math, but aﬃrmed that, for him, one was enough.
Snoopy wasn’t happy. It didn’t make sense, he had said, as he’d seen Titzy
drink four single espressos the previous day. “Yes,” replied Titzy, “but if I
keep it on the side for two hours, it will get cold, won’t it?” Snoopy said he
could microwave it. They argued like that for an hour.
With me, it was economics. We argued about economics constantly. Titzy
graduated from Bocconi. That’s basically just LSE for Italians. But if Titzy
was anything to go by, Bocconi had not yet gotten round to communicating
LSE’s core central message: that economics degrees are raﬄe tickets for
banking jobs. Titzy still cared about the theory, about the ideas!
Can you imagine that! Poor Titzy. No one had cared about that shit for
twenty years.So why did I want this scruﬀy, silver-suited Italian who went around
overpaying for his coﬀee? The truth is, I liked arguing with the guy. I’ve got
Italians in my family, I’ve always liked winding them up. What can I say, it’s a
weakness of mine. I liked the way he’d get mad about the nature of the causes
of inﬂation, or storm oﬀ in the middle of a football game, shouting (probably
correctly, in fairness) that we weren’t ﬁt to polish his boots.
But those weren’t the main reasons that I wanted Titzy. I wanted Titzy coz
he was the voice of the street.
I’m not talking about the back streets of Naples here. Titzy was more of a
Lake Como type. I’m talking about Wall Street.
Titzy always thought that the market was right. Always. Just like he always
thought the textbooks were right. I think the guy had some sort of deeply laid
innate desire to believe in a kind of higher wisdom. To trust that the guys
upstairs had it under control. Bless him, his dad must have been a nice guy.
That was exactly what I wanted. I wanted a kid who read the Financial
Times in the morning and then spent the whole day on the phone to his
business school mates.
Let me explain to you why.
When I lost that eight million dollars I realized something. You don’t
become the best at anything by copying people. I wasn’t going to get better
than Bill by copying Bill. And I wasn’t going to get better than Spengler by
copying Spengler. Ultimately, when the shit hit the fan, it took me out and
nobody else. Billy and Spengler didn’t come to save me. That’s what you get
from copying people. Second-hand tactics, second-hand skills. It’s not good
enough.
I needed something that was mine.
And when Bill slapped those textbooks out of my hand and into the bin, I
realized what it was.
See, Billy was right about those textbooks. They were bullshit. Textbooks
are for kids. If you want to understand the real world, the time comes when
you have to go and look at it. That time had come for me.
Rich daddy. Private school. Princeton Finance Society. Citibank.
Algebra. Calculus. Lagrangians. Proofs.Most of those dicks on the trading ﬂoor, they’re still living in their daddies’
pockets. They believed everything they read and sucked up every word they
got told. Why the fuck wouldn’t they? It gets everyone paid. That’s why Billy
beat them year after year.
But when Billy threw my books in the bin, there was something else. I
could see it in his eyes.
See, when we were memorizing algebra in castles, and lining up in queues
for Finance Society events, little teenage Billy wasn’t doing that. He was
sitting down behind a sheet of glass, in the middle of buttfuck nowhere in
Yorkshire somewhere, handing out wads of cash to punters. He was a cashier.
A checkout boy.
Billy never had those books.
And I could see it then: Billy was jealous.
—
Now, I’m going to tell you a secret about trading. Making money trading is
not about being right. It’s about being right when everyone’s wrong.
Billy was right. Billy was right year after year after year after year. But
when did he make his big money? He made his money when something
happened that no one else had foreseen, when the global banking system
collapsed.
When people are wrong, their predictions are wrong. When people’s
predictions are wrong, their prices are wrong. And when prices are wrong, we
make millions.
The reason Billy was right, year after year, when everyone else wasn’t, was
because Billy knew that the economy was a real thing. The economy is
people, it’s houses, it’s businesses, it’s loans. The rest of us had all been
trained to see it as numbers, and besides that, barely any of the traders knew a
single person who wasn’t rich, if you don’t count their cleaners. What did they
know about the real world?
That was one advantage that both Billy and I had over them. We didn’t
have to strike up conversations with our cleaners.But I had something else, too, something that Billy never had. Billy knew
he was surrounded by idiots. But I’d been inside the universities. I’d taken the
courses. I’d memorized the book. I’d seen the dark heart of the idiocy. I knew
it. Its ﬂavors. Its taste.
The best trading, you do it with your nose. It smells like stupidity.
And back then, at the beginning of 2011, the whole place was stinking of
it.
—
See, something happened in 2010 that I couldn’t get out of my head.
Interest rates stayed zero, all year.
That probably means nothing to you. You saw interest rates stay zero for
nearly ﬁfteen years. Zero interest rates were normal for you.
They weren’t normal back then.
More importantly, they hadn’t been predicted.
In the beginning of 2010, everybody thought that interest rates would go
back up that year. Everyone had thought the same in 2009.
But it hadn’t happened. Everyone had been wrong, two years in a row.
Why?
Well I’ve read the textbooks, just like Titzy, and every other pink-shirted
dickhead on Wall Street. Let me tell you the story they tell.
Interest rates control the economy. If you control the interest rates, you
control the economy. We are good at this. We have this well under control.
Sometimes people lose conﬁdence and they stop spending money. When
people stop spending money businesses lose customers and they go out of
business. That means that people lose their jobs, and they spend even less
money. That means more businesses shut down. That can lead to a spiral of
rapidly increasing unemployment and poverty. It can cause your economy to
collapse. That’s what happened in the Great Depression in the 1930s  leading,
ultimately, to fascism in Europe and the Second World War.
That could have happened again in 2008, but it didn’t because we’ve got it
under control. We know how to deal with this problem. When this happens,we cut interest rates. Cutting interest rates is great because it makes saving
less attractive, and borrowing cheap, so people and businesses will save less,
and they’ll borrow and spend. This perfectly counteracts the root cause of the
problem—people stopping spending money. Through diligent management of
interest rates, a tweak here and a tweak there, we can always reach the ﬁrst-
best-optimal-outcome-for-the-economy. The best of all possible worlds.
Back in 2008, economists were very conﬁdent in their ability to achieve
this. The previous two decades had seen a golden age of success for
economists, during which they successfully
1. Conquered Inﬂation
2. Ended Boom and Bust
3. Achieved Sustained Economic Growth
All through the miracle of interest-rate management.
Given the generally accepted wonderfulness of the strategy, it is no
surprise that when the massive (and unforeseen) banking crisis of 2008
dropped, there was uniform nodding of heads within the economist
community that the correct response was to slash interest rates. Interest rates
were, accordingly, slashed enormously. Whereas previously central bankers
would do things like pruning interest rates from 5.75%  to 5.5% , suddenly
they were slashing them from 5.5% to zero. And this happened across the
rich world.
Everyone was very conﬁdent it would work.
I won’t bore you with the technical details, but slashing interest rates is
printing money. The way a central bank lowers interest rates is that it prints a
fuckton of money, and then it lends it out to banks super-duper cheap.
Everyone was very conﬁdent it would work.
The level of conﬁdence in this plan is probably best summed up by a quote
from Ben Bernanke at about the same time. Ben Bernanke (ex-Princeton, ex-
Harvard, ex-MIT) was at that time the head of the US Federal Reserve, on
paper the most powerful and smartest economist in the world. Here’s what he
said:“The US government has a technology, called a printing press, that allows
it to produce as many dollars as it wishes at essentially no cost…Under a
paper-money system, a determined government can always generate higher
spending.”
Everyone was very conﬁdent it would work.
It didn’t work.
—
That’s why I wanted to sit next to Titzy Lazzari. I wanted to sit next to Titzy
Lazzari because Titzy was wrong.
OK. This is not about Titzy Lazzari personally, this is about the whole
market. By the beginning of 2011, it had started to become clear to me that
the market was wrong. Not just the market, but the economists, the
universities, the fucking Monetary Policy Committee in the Bank of England,
the dickheads on the news, the whole fucking shitshow.
These fuckers had been wrong about everything. Every single fucking
thing since the day I showed up. When I showed up everybody thought that
the pink-shirt dickheads were one step down from God. Next thing those
guys blew the world up using nothing but mathematics, idiocy and hubris.
After that, every economist in the whole world had spent two and a half years
constantly predicting a recovery that never happened. One day I sat down and
looked through some historic interest-rate predictions. Every single one was a
mile too high. They were wrong about everything. We were wrong about
everything.
I needed to know why.
That’s why I needed Titzy. I needed to measure the distance between the
real economy and the universities, between the real world and the markets.
For that reason, I needed someone beside me who was fresh out of university,
fully plugged into the matrix. Someone who knew every economic theory,
who read every business paper. Someone whose friends were all fresh out of
business school, and whose father messaged him asking for stock trading tipsfrom a yacht. Someone whose silver suit was pumped full to bursting with
Kool-Aid.
Yep, I needed Titzy. I needed Titzy because he was wrong.
2
SO WHY WERE PEOPLE NOT spending money? In 2009, in 2010, in 2011?
Titzy saw it as a crisis of conﬁdence. 2008 was a big shock to the system.
The consumer had been badly rocked. Now, by the beginning of 2011,
conﬁdence is coming back, more than two years have passed, people are
ready to go out spending again.
It’s an opinion, I guess.
What did Bill think?
The banking system got fucked. People got fucked over. People lost their
homes and their jobs. But those homes are owned by new people now, and
unemployment is coming down and inﬂation’s going up. Now that the
banking system is repaired, it’s only a matter of time before the economy, and
interest rates, bounce back.
It’s an opinion, I guess.
What did Antonio Mancini, the wealthy, snakeskin-belted Oxford
macroeconomics professor think, when I asked him seven years later, in
2018? “We always knew rates would stay zero! People had had a shock to
their consumption-savings preferences!”
Well…It’s an opinion, I guess.
JB used to have a saying about opinions. “Opinions are like arseholes.
Everyone’s got one.”
I asked Harry Sambhi. Harry was still just a kid. Harry had holes in his
shoes and was jumping over the barriers on the tube to save costs. That’s why
he didn’t spend money. I asked Asad. Asad said his mum had sold the familyhome to support him and his sisters and now he was sleeping on the sofa to
try and save up a deposit. That’s why they didn’t spend money. I asked Aidan.
Aidan’s mum had lost her job and hadn’t been able to get a new rate on the
mortgage. Now the monthly payments were sky high, and Aidan was having
to pay them himself. That’s why they didn’t spend money.
They were losing their homes. I hadn’t even noticed.
Opinions are like arseholes, I guess. Everyone’s got one.
—
I was sitting on the desk one afternoon in February and I tried it out on Titz.
“Titzy. Do you think the reason no one is spending money is because no
one’s got any money?”
“What the fuck are you talkin’ about, geeza? How can no one have any
money?”
His accent is deeply Italian. “Geeza” is a new word that he’s recently
learned and he’s trying it out.
“Well, you know, I been askin’ people and that’s all they keep saying. ‘I
don’t have no fuckin money.’ ”
“ ‘I don ava no fuckina money.’ ” Titzy tries to copy my accent and
somehow comes oﬀ sounding even more Italian. “Come on geeza. It’s a
monetary system. It’s not possible for no one to have any money. The whole
thing has got to add up.” He tries to lean over to pick a newspaper up oﬀ of
the ﬂoor while his feet are resting on the table, and he nearly falls oﬀ of his
chair.
—
Immediately after that, Citibank hires a huge estate in the countryside
somewhere outside London and invites all the global traders for a conference
and a piss-up. The Slug is there and I realize why they call him the Slug. The
Frog is there and I realize why they call him the Frog.
The big boss, the Slug’s boss, gives a big speech where he tells us all to
take much, much more risk.“If you are happy to risk it in one million dollars, then why shouldn’t you
risk it in ten!”
They give us all army camo baseball caps with “Go Big or Go Home”
printed on the front.
I didn’t stay for the party. I put the cap on and climbed into my little
Peugeot 106 and I just drove it all the way home.
—
Back on the desk, everyone put massive bets on, just like the Big Boss Man
told them to. Big bets on recovery. Billy was in, Snoopy was in, JB was in,
Chuck was in. Fuck, even Hongo was in, and he never bet on anything. It
wasn’t just the STIRT desk, everyone was doing it. Spot desk, Options desk,
Emerging Markets desks. I waited though. I didn’t like the smell. I wasn’t in,
so Titzy wasn’t in.
The next week I got called into a meeting. There used to be a fortnightly
meeting between all the heads of the diﬀerent desks on the ﬂoor. Back when
Caleb was the boss, I had to go to every meeting to carry the sandwiches.
When Chuck came in, I never told him about the meeting and I just kept on
going myself. I don’t know why, I thought it might be useful one day.
That week’s meeting was held by one of the only economists in the whole
bank that I actually respected. He was from the Credit department, and I
remembered him from my internship. His name was Timothy Prince.
Timothy had a bunch of charts. He went through them one at a time. On
each one was the ﬁscal situation of a single country. Italy. Spain. Greece.
Portugal. Ireland. Also the United Kingdom, the US, Japan.
They were all variations on the same story. All these governments were
spending more than their income year after year and their debts were
growing. If things kept going in the same direction, the interest rates on their
debts would start rising. People would stop lending to them, and they’d have
to sell their assets. That would be bad.
I packed all the leftover sandwiches into a brown paper bag and I carried
them back to the desk.I couldn’t get it out of my head. Not the collapse of western welfare states,
no, I wasn’t too worried about that. What I couldn’t get out of my head was
this sense of similarity. It was the same. The government of Spain, the
government of America, the government of Japan. The situation was just like
Asad’s mum, it was just like Aidan’s mum. Outgoings more than their
income. Losing the ability to borrow money. More and more income going
into servicing debt. Losing their assets. The situation was the same. It wasn’t
just Harry with holes in his shoes, it was the world.
But it came up against the economics though, Titzy’s wisdom. We’re in a
monetary system. The whole thing always has to be in balance. For everyone
who’s in debt, there’s someone who’s in credit. For everybody losing money,
there’s somebody who’s gaining. The whole system is designed to be in
balance. Not only that, but what about the houses? What about the stock
market that was rising and rising? These assets weren’t disappearing. But if
we didn’t own them, if the people didn’t own them, and the governments
didn’t own them…Then who did?
And that was it, I think, that was the moment that it hit me, surrounded by
millionaires and sandwiches.
I looked to the left of me. Pink shirt, pink shirt, white, sky blue. I looked
to the right of me. White shirt, white shirt, pink, ooh, pinstripes, don’t see
much of that nowadays. There, in string, sewn into a collar, four letters:
“A.I.E.Q.” Who the fuck’s surname begins with a Q?
Millionaires. Every single one of them.
And me, too. What about me? I’d be a millionaire, before long.
It was us. It was us, wasn’t it? We were the balance. We were the boys
who’d be richer than our fathers, in a world of children who’d be poor. We
were the ones with the growing bank balances that balanced the Italian’s debt.
We were the ones receiving the interest on Aidan’s mum’s mortgage, that
Aidan himself was now having to pay, to us. And our children. Maybe my
children. Maybe they would own the house that Asad’s mum sold. And the
rent from that house, and the interest from the Italian government: maybe our
children could lend that back out to Asad’s own children, and then we’d own
the houses and the debt, as well. And it would grow, that’s what compoundinterest does. We would use the money from the assets to buy the rest of the
assets. You’d sell your assets to us, to pay your mortgage, to pay your rent. To
pay it to us. That’s how it would go. It would get worse and worse. It would
grow, it would grow out of control. It wasn’t a crisis of conﬁdence. It wasn’t
the fucking of the banking system. It wasn’t an “exogenous shock to
consumption savings preferences.” It was inequality. Inequality that would
grow and grow, and get worse and get worse until it dominated and killed the
economy that contained it. It wasn’t temporary, it was terminal. It was the end
of the economy. It was cancer.
And I knew what that meant.
It meant I had to buy green Eurodollars.
—
A green Eurodollar is a bet. A nice, clean bet on what American interest rates
will be in two and a half years’ time. None of this complicated “lend one
currency borrow another” bullshit that you get in FX swaps. None of this
having to borrow the money back every day. We are talking pure betting now.
Casino stuﬀ. We loved it. Billy loved it, Snoopy loved it, I loved it.
Our job was not supposed to be betting. We were supposed to provide FX
swaps to customers. But we were given access to products like Eurodollars
(and their equivalents in all the other currencies) so that we could “hedge our
risks.” We hedged a fucking lot of risks, often risks we didn’t have. I was
about to take the hedge of my life.
See what I had realized, at that moment, was exactly, precisely why we
were all wrong. We had been diagnosing a terminal cancer as a series of
seasonal colds. We thought the banking system was broken, but ﬁxable. We
thought conﬁdence had collapsed, but would recover. But what was really
happening was that the wealth of the middle class—of ordinary, hardworking
families like Aidan’s and like Asad’s, and also of almost all the world’s largest
governments—was being sucked away from them and into the hands of the
rich. Ordinary families were losing their assets and going into debt. So were
governments. As ordinary families and governments got poorer, and the richgot richer, that would increase ﬂows of interest, rent and proﬁt from the
middle class to the rich, compounding the problem. The problem would not
solve itself. In fact, it would accelerate, it would get worse. The reason
economists didn’t realize this is because almost no economists look in their
models at how wealth is distributed. They spend ten years memorizing
“representative agent” models—models that view the whole economy as one
single “average” or “representative” person. As a result, for them the economy
is only ever about averages, about aggregates. They ignore the distribution.
For them, it’s nothing more than an afterthought. Moralist window dressing.
Finally, my degree was useful for something after all. It showed me exactly
how everyone was wrong.
If I was right, this was a big deal. It meant that markets were horribly,
horribly mispriced. The recovery would never happen and the normalization
of interest rates would never happen. At that point, the beginning of 2011,
markets were pricing nearly 6 full hikes of 0.25%  each from the US Federal
Reserve in the following twelve months alone. They were going to be wrong.
Everyone was going to be wrong. Those rate hikes weren’t going to happen.
They would never happen. I would be able to make money oﬀ this year, after
year, after year, as the interest predictions got pushed back and back. These
idiots never even looked at inequality. It would be a decade before they
caught on, at least.
There was an alternative to doing green Eurodollars. I could bet with
something called “OIS.” Eurodollars were machine-traded and you had to
ﬁddle about with them, whereas with an OIS you could get another bank to
quote you a price for a single massive trade, and you could do the whole thing
in one drop. Plus, guess who brokes US dollar OIS? That’s right, Harry
Sambhi. I wanted Harry to see.
I pushed Harry’s button. I’d never traded through Harry before. I asked
him to get me a price on 700 million dollars of one-year OIS starting in the
spring of the following year, 2012. That was a big trade, especially for me
since I wasn’t oﬃcially a dollar trader. Harry was shocked. I think he might
have thought I was doing him a favor. He went out and got me a price from
Deutsche Bank and I hit it. It felt good. Every single other fucker on the deskwas betting on recovery and now I was clean betting against them. Let’s see
who’s right then. Me, or everyone. Yeah, I liked that. Time to play with the
big boys. Game on.
Then the earthquake happened.
—
How would you feel if an earthquake happened and twenty thousand people
died and you made eleven million dollars?
That’s ﬁve hundred and ﬁfty dollars per person.
I didn’t know there was going to be an earthquake. I ain’t a fucking
magician.
When I got to my desk I had hundreds of emails. One of them was from
the Citi Macroeconomics department. It said: “We anticipate the earthquake
to be strongly positive for 2011 Japanese GDP growth.”
I opened my desk and I pulled out a blue ballpoint pen and I quietly
snapped it in half and I dropped both halves into the bin. I took my second
pen and I did the same thing. Then I went to the stationery cupboard to get
more pens.
The junior on the Tokyo desk had sent Titzy a video of our Tokyo STIRT
trader, Hisa Watanabe, on the trading ﬂoor during the earthquake. He was
crouched under his desk and gripping onto something under there, but his
little head kept popping up in a little yellow hard hat and he was trying to
grab his mouse and do some trading while Tokyo swayed wildly through the
windows in the background.
Titzy forwarded the video to the desk, but no one found it funny. Do you
know why they didn’t ﬁnd it funny? Because earthquakes make interest rates
go down.
It’s weird isn’t it? You spend three years of your life studying economics,
then another three trading on it. You wake up at 5 a.m. and you read a
hundred emails. Every day. You hire a kid fresh out of university so he can
talk to you nonstop about economic theory. You ﬁnally come up with your
grand idea and you bet your arse on it. Then you make 2.5 million dollars, ina single day, because of an earthquake, and twenty thousand people die, and
all of the people who you are closest to, the people who you spend every
single day of your life with, the people who taught you to trade, the people
who taught you everything, all of them get smashed.
What does it mean?
Titzy kept looking at me like I was a fucking genius, like I knew the
earthquake was going to happen. As if I caused it or something.
Billy lost the most, of course, because Billy was the biggest. I think he lost
5 or 6 million dollars. He had it to lose. Snoopy lost 1.5 or 2. That was a lot
for him. Pretty much his whole PnL for the year. JB tried to hold on and ﬁght
it and he ended up losing nearly 4, in the end. That dropped him into the red.
Hongo tapped out immediately and only lost $500K . Chuck is some kind of
Teﬂon Buddha and he barely lost anything. I don’t know how he did it,
sometimes I’m not even sure he really existed. I didn’t say nothing. Just
waited and watched, breaking pens.
There was a nuclear disaster. You probably know about it. They evacuated
154,000 people from the prefecture of Fukushima and people thought the
nuclear plant might blow up. That was good for my position. Up three and a
half million dollars. Up four and a half million dollars.
By a week in I was up six million and JB was absolutely choking. It was
hard to watch. Then I did something a little bit crazy which, as a trader, I
probably wouldn’t do nowadays.
There was a sales guy on the ﬂoor on the desk next to ours. I liked him. He
was a nice guy, but he wasn’t the smartest. A crisp, clean cut, nicely raised
Englishman in his mid-forties. His name was Stanley Palmer. One day, in the
midst of the nuclear panic, Stanley Palmer went crazy. He stood up, at 11
a.m., in the middle of the trading ﬂoor, and he screamed out, “THE NUKE
RODS ARE EXPOSED!!!”
The words echoed around me as desk juniors across the ﬂoor repeated
them loudly to their own desks. Titzy stood up beside me and shouted, “THE
NUKE RODS ARE EXPOSED!!!,” his hands around his mouth.
There was a chaos of noise and activity as people ran back to their seats
and shouted at their brokers and each other. Stanley was still standing andrepeating the words, “THE NUKE RODS ARE EXPOSED!!! THE NUKE
RODS ARE EXPOSED!!!!”
Titzy was echoing it like a clown.
I told Titzy to shut the fuck up.
Titzy spread his hands real wide and shrugged wildly as if I was the mad
one.
“Titzy, what the fuck is a nuke rod?”
Titzy did that thing that Italians do with their hands.
I turned back to Stanley, he was still shouting and shouting.
What did I know about Stanley? I was pretty sure he had graduated from
Oxford. What was it he had studied? Was it History? Or was it Classics?
Could it have been PPE?
“Titzy there’s no way. There’s no fucking way Stanley knows what a nuke
rod is.”
Titzy wasn’t listening. He was deep in his screens. JB was screaming down
his broker lines. He was ﬁnally stopping out of his position.
I picked up the heavy brown telephone and I pressed the button to my
Eurodollar broker. I covered my mouth with my hand, and I sold a fucking
ton of Eurodollar futures. That ﬂipped my whole position. I wasn’t betting on
a disaster any longer, I was betting on rates going up.
You shouldn’t do that. You shouldn’t ﬂip your whole position on a feeling,
on a whim. You shouldn’t play God, you are not invincible. But what am I
gonna tell you? I was twenty-four years old and I did it.
The nuclear plant never exploded. Thank God.
I made another ﬁve million on the way back up.
The best trading, you do it with your nose. It smells like stupidity.
3
AFTER THAT EVERYONE WAS FUCKED. Everybody got stopped out of their
positions. JB had stopped out at the worst possible moment, at the very peak
of the carnage, the exact point when I was going the other way.
Once everybody calmed down, I took proﬁt on all of the Eurodollars,
ﬂipping myself back into predicting disaster. There may not have been a
nuclear explosion in 2011, but there was going to be an explosion. I could
smell it. By the middle of April, I was up over 11 million dollars. The desk as
a whole was up less than ten. JB was 1.7 in the red.
Being in the red isn’t fun. It is not fun for anyone, but it was deﬁnitely not
fun for JB.
JB was from another generation. He was a good man: a sportsman, a
talker, a charmer. He would have been a lawyer if he hadn’t dropped out of
Oxford. But he wasn’t a numbers guy, or a details man. The ground moved
from under his feet.
In 2011, Europe collapsed. First it was Greece. Then it was Spain, and
then Italy, Portugal, Ireland. Dropping like dominoes, just like the Prince had
predicted. Nobody would buy the bonds of any of these governments, nobody
would lend to them. It was good for me. I made a lot of money.
Who lends money to national governments? Largely, it is the banks of the
countries themselves. Ultimately, it’s you, if you’re a bank depositor. The
bank takes your deposits and it lends them to governments. That’s totally ﬁne,
because, prior to 2011, economists had considered lending money to
governments to be “risk-free.”They were wrong.
Why is lending to governments risk-free? Theoretically, it is because
governments have the ability, in the case of emergency, to print their own
money. If they get into big trouble, and they owe you a lot of money, they can
print the money and use that to pay you back.
The trouble with that is that Italy can’t do it. Nor can Spain. Nor can
Greece. Nor can Portugal. A consequence of the creation of the euro was that
European countries lost their legal ability to print their own money. Nobody
really worried much about that because these countries were always
considered to be super-safe credits. Until they weren’t.
In 2011, when people realized that these countries were bankrupt,
questions were quickly raised over whether the banks, who had lent to them
and were owed huge amounts of money by their governments, were bankrupt
as well. This was less than three years after the Lehman crisis. Nobody
wanted any more banks to go bankrupt. The European Central Bank had to
act.
What the ECB did next was highly unconventional. They oﬀered all
European banks unlimited loans at 1% interest.
This is not how Central Banking usually works. Setting the interest rate is
a big deal for central banks; they like to get microscopic on the detail.
Usually, they would monitor closely the interest rates at which banks were
lending to each other. If the rates were too high, they’d inject a little bit of
cheap money into the system, pushing the rate down. If rates were too low,
they’d do the opposite, lending less money or borrowing it back, bringing the
market rate up. The way that central banks controlled interest rates was thus
by manipulating the quantity of loans in the system. If you control the
quantity, you can control the price. Just like iPhones and Nike trainers.
But once you oﬀer unlimited loans, you can’t control the quantity anymore.
And if you don’t control the quantity, then you don’t control the price. The
ECB must have felt that they had to do it to guarantee that no bank would go
under, but the result was madness in the markets.
A stupid game played out between the ECB and the commercial banks.
The ECB oﬀered unlimited 1% loans in what it called “auctions”—althoughthey weren’t really auctions, since everyone got exactly whatever they asked
for, without limit. As it became clear that the Greek government was going
under, banks swarmed into the auctions to bid for the loans. They borrowed
so much that there was an absolute ﬂood of money into the system, and
European interest rates collapsed to zero, even to less than zero on some days,
a full percentage point below the ECB’s “oﬃcial” interest rate of 1%, which
was the cost of the loans. Seeing that interest rates had collapsed to zero,
hardly anyone bid for ECB loans at the next auction. That led to a huge lack
of money in the market, and rates shot up to above 2%. Every week it would
be like this, with each bank trying to work out how much money the other
banks would borrow. If you knew everyone would borrow, you’d try not to
borrow yourself, anticipating cheap money in the market. If you thought
other banks wouldn’t borrow, you’d get in as much cash as you could.
Everyone was trying to do what everyone else didn’t do. The end result was
nothing but carnage.
Sometimes there were multiple auctions in a week. There was no way of
knowing what the interest rate would be on any given day. It could be
anything from sub 0% to above 2%. It would swing wildly between those two
extremes on consecutive days. To be honest, I had no idea what was
happening. But that was OK, because I had Titzy. Titzy tracked that shit like
a bloodhound, all day, every single day.
JB didn’t have Titzy. JB didn’t have nothing. JB was becoming an old man
by then. Interest rates never used to be like that. In his day, the Central Bank
would set them once a month and then they’d stay where they fucking were.
All of our valuation systems and pricing systems were set up for that kind of
world. JB couldn’t adapt. My job was only to price the front month—that’s
about twenty-six or twenty-seven business days. It was only possible with
Titzy constantly updating every single day manually. There was no other way
to do it. JB had the following twenty-three months to deal with. That was
about six hundred days. He was out of his depth.
He was getting smashed day after day. His prices were wrong and I knew
they were wrong. Simon Chang, the HSBC trader, had also been promoted toeuros, and he’d hit me up on the IB chat every day asking me why I was
showing wrong prices.
“It’s not me,” I would type. “It’s JB.”
“Well why the fuck is JB showing wrong prices? He’s going to get
steamrolled. Why don’t you tell him!?”
Good question. Why didn’t I tell him?
—
You know what, the truth is, it never occurred to me. I’m not sure why,
maybe that’s just the kind of person I am.
JB was ﬂailing. He was struggling for air. He was losing money day after
day. I was killing it. I was creaming it. I was making money on all of Titzy’s
prices and my disaster position was just pouring cash in every time I stepped
onto the ﬂoor. JB never once turned round and asked me why.
The truth is, he was hardly ever there.
The last few years had been good to JB. They had been good to everyone
on that desk. Everyone had made a lot of money. So had I. JB had done his
share of living the dream. He might have done your share as well.
JB had bought a string of luxury apartments overlooking the Thames. He’d
gotten one of the secretaries pregnant. She was about to bear him his ﬁrst
child.
He was oﬀ the desk a lot now. He’d go on long broker lunches. When he’d
come back he’d be bright red all over, and then he’d smear himself onto the
markets like bugs on a windscreen. It was painful to watch.
I told Snoopy I was worried.
“Don’t worry about JB,” Snoopy said with a smile. “He’s the wealthiest
man I personally know.”
So it goes, I guess. So it goes.
—
When JB was oﬀ the desk I had to cover for him. He was oﬀ the desk more
than he was on it. My book, remember, the short-dated euros book, was thebusiest book on the desk by a mile even before the euro market went insane.
Now it had become a nonstop, manic rollercoaster, and I was doing more
than half of JB’s job, too. It was intense.
But what do you do, you know? What else can you do? You work. As
Europe collapsed my PnL exploded, and I went through 22 million dollars in
June. I was the top trader on the whole ﬂoor by that time, and by a bit. This
was my big moment, I was killing it, and I weren’t going to let no Queensland
alcoholic get in my way.
I did my job and I did JB’s job as well. I got into work early every day and
I made Titzy get in early too. I jumped straight oﬀ of my bicycle and onto the
trading ﬂoor. I locked myself into the screens, the speakerboxes, the headsets,
the beeps and the dings and before long I was dominating the market. I was
trading over half a trillion euros every day. I don’t really know how these
things rank globally, but I would guess that must have made me one of the
biggest traders in the world. There was no other way to trade it really, that
market, it was insane.
I started forgetting to change out of my cycling clothes, and before long, I
didn’t even care. I stopped even bringing my work clothes into the oﬃce. I
traded in a gray hoody, black ﬁngerless gloves, and old, faded Onitsuka
Tigers, all day, every day. I set up sound alerts so that my computer would
warn me whenever certain things happened. My station became a riot of
noise, and it would scream out loud “Ka-Ching” sounds whenever my PnL
went through another half a million dollars. It would make them a lot. On big
win days, in the afternoons when the trading got quiet, I would bang out
reggae tunes from my speakers on maximum volume and me and Titzy would
put our feet up on the desks and drink single espressos two at a time and jam
out. Liquidator, Return of Django, 54–46. I was the number one trader in that
whole place, the King of the Trading Floor, and Titzy was my right-hand
man. Titzy wasn’t making any money himself, of course, but he was just a
kid, he was happy to be along for the ride. Fuck, what do I mean he was a
kid? Titzy’s older than me. We were both twenty-four. I went home and I
dreamed about markets, every night.—
“Has anyone ever called you…arrogant?”
JB had just come back from the bathroom. JB always wanted to ramp
when he came back from the bathroom.
I’d had just about enough of JB’s shit. Man’s never here, making wrong
prices, losing money day after day. What little money he does make he gives
it all to the brokers, now he wants to call me fucking arrogant.
I didn’t look at him. I could feel his eyes burning into my left cheek but I
just stared forward with my hand on my mouse. I was wearing my little
Bluetooth headset and I shifted the left earphone oﬀ of my ear as a sign of
respect.
“No. Never. No one ever.”
“Well. I must say I ﬁnd that highly surprising. Don’t you think that’s quite
an arrogant thing to say?”
I took a blue ballpoint pen out of my drawer and I tapped the tip of it a
few times on the plasticky desk. I thought about snapping it in half but I
decided not to. I put it down and I turned to JB.
“JB, when are you gonna get yourself out of the red?”
Our faces were less than a foot from one another. The broken blood
vessels of his nose were spreading across his face like an illness, and I
suddenly remembered how much the man had helped me and I felt bad for
saying what I’d said. But I didn’t let it show on my face.
“Don’t you worry about that. I’ve done it before and I’ll do it again. I know
what I’m doing.”
“What’s the trade then? Come on JB. What’s the trade?”
JB looked into my eyes and I looked into his. Our faces were even closer
now, almost touching, and I could hear his slow, measured breathing. I
noticed how blue his eyes were, the pale blueness of the eyes of an old man
that have seeped their blue into the world for many years. There was a long
pause. I wasn’t sure if he was reading me or if he was thinking. I wasn’t sure
if I was reading him.
“Stocks.”“Stocks?”
“Stocks,” JB repeated, decisively.
“Stocks are the trade?”
“Stocks. They’re too high.”
“What do you mean stocks are too high?”
“Look at them! They’re too fucking high! They’ve barely fallen and the
economy’s going to shit! They’ve got to go down.”
I turned away from JB and I picked up the pen again and I tapped it onto
the bare desk about twenty times.
“JB, you don’t get it do you? It don’t work like that. Stocks never go down.
Stocks only go up. When the economy is good stocks go up, and when the
economy is shit, they print so much money stocks go up even more. Same
with fucking houses. Everything goes up. The asset holders never lose. The
rich never lose. The rich only win. Buy the fucking stocks mate. They’ll go to
the moon. And you will be fucking ﬁne mate. Don’t you worry.”
And I went and bought four single espressos.
—
I’ve got to be honest. When JB was oﬀ the desk, and I was quoting his prices
as well as my own, I didn’t put as much eﬀort into his as I did into mine. His
prices went into his book and his PnL. My prices went into my book and
mine. I had my priorities. I’m sorry, but I did.
JB knew it. It was bound to blow up.
You may remember that, as market makers, we take the spread. Say the
real price is 71. I quote you 70–72, you buy at 72, I look for someone to sell
to me at 71, and we’re done. You got to buy the thing you wanted, I got my
proﬁt. Everyone’s happy.
The problem is, the real price doesn’t exist. Or perhaps it’s fairer to say,
it’s moving all the time. And what happens if it’s moving and you didn’t see
it?
Let’s say that it’s 74 now. Some shit happened when I was taking a piss.
Morley hasn’t shifted the price on his screen yet because he’s busy and it’sonly just happened. You call me up and you ask me for a price. I look at the
screen and it’s 70–72. I tell you 70–72. You lift me at 72 and I wanna buy
now at 71.
I ask Morley for a price and it’s 73–75.5.
Fuck.
I can’t get out of it now without taking a 3.5 l oss.
Tell Morley I’ll pay 73.
“Too late. Someone else is already bidding 74.”
“OK fuck it, do you still have the 75.5 o ﬀer? Tell them I’ll pay 75.”
Two minutes of silence.
“Sorry mate 75.5 is gone. Best I’ve got now is 77.”
See market-making isn’t so easy. You’ve got to think long and hard about
when you take your pisses.
—
JB was oﬀ desk. He was out drinking God knows where ﬁlling himself with
beer and sake and raw ﬁsh and God knows what the fuck else.
Someone called me on a price for JB and I was pretty busy. What was I
doing? I don’t know. Maybe I was deciding what to cook for dinner that
evening. I was trying to perfect my duck à l’orange.
Put your cookbook to the side of the table quickly, pull up your price
screen. Ask a broker:
“Where’s three months?”
“34–37.”
34–37, yeah that sounds about right, repeat it to the salesman.
“34–37.”
“37 mine, 2 yards.”
A short crackle of radio fuzz on the speakerbox as the salesman hangs up.
Two yards. That’s quite a lot. We should probably cover some right away.
Flick the switch up to the broker.
“Marco. You still there in the three months?”
“Still there. 34–37.”“Mine. One yard.”
Crackle. Two and a half minutes of silence. You’re watching price screens
on your computer and you can see they’re being adjusted. 35–38. 36–39.
Fucking Marco, he never had a 37 oﬀer. Fucking bullshit.
“Marco, where’s my fucking three months.”
“Mate I’m really sorry it’s gone, best I got is 39.”
“Fuck! Why the Fuck did you tell me you had 37 then!?”
“Mate I had it, I had it, I been fucking let down.”
Fuck him, he never had it. I knew straight away it was gone.
I refreshed JB’s PnL. He was down 100K. He had only just scraped
himself back into the black. That would be nearly enough to put him in the
red again. I lean over to Titzy.
“Titzy!”
“Hmph!?”
Titzy was eating lasagne from a cardboard box with a plastic fork.
“Titzy, I got hit in three months for JB and it’s already fucking gone. He’s
down 100. What should we do?”
“Ah fuck, he only just got above zero. Can you cover it?”
“If we cover it now, he’ll lose two hundred and he’ll be back in the red.
What do you think?”
“You should text him.”
I wrote out a text to JB.
“You got hit in the three months. It’s down 100K .”
Before I sent the text I refreshed his PnL. It was down 200 now. I deleted
“It’s down 100K,” and replaced it with “It’s not looking good.”
I sent the text.
—
By the time JB got back to the desk it was 4 p.m. and the trade was down
400K. JB was looking simultaneously delighted and like he may well at any
point fall over. I knew straight away he hadn’t read the text. I looked to my
right at Titzy, who was looking at me. I did up two of the three open buttonson my shirt. Titzy did the same. I muted my computer. This would be a bad
time for a ka-ching.
“All right fuckers, how’s the world looking?”
JB settled himself in his chair. He refreshed his PnL. I was trying my best
not to look at him but in my peripheral vision I saw the blood drop from his
face. He pushed Marco’s button as if reﬂexive instinct.
“Marco where’s three months?”
Crackle. Pause. “41–44.”
“What the fuck is this?”
I didn’t look at JB, I looked at his speakerbox. Marco’s light wasn’t on.
That meant he was talking to me.
“It’s the three months mate. You got hit in the three months. I told you
about it—it’s in the text! Didn’t you see the text!?”
I had him here. He hadn’t seen the text. We both knew he hadn’t seen the
text. We both knew he should have done.
JB slowly stood up and put his hand to his pocket. He pulled his phone out
as if it was a gun. He read the text out slowly, one word at a time.
“You. Got. Hit. In. The three months. It’s. Not…Looking…Good.”
JB put down his phone and stayed standing, and so I stood myself up as
well. He turned to face me and now we were squared. JB repeated the last
three words straight into my face.
“Not looking good. Not…looking…good.”
I chewed on that for a second.
“Well…I mean…It’s not really…Is it?”
JB pursed his lips and started nodding quickly, almost imperceptibly.
“What are you gonna do?”
It was obvious what he was saying. I was up over twenty-four million
dollars. That trade dropped JB in the red. I have no doubt, I am absolutely
certain, that JB himself would have taken the trade.
I remembered the ﬁrst time I’d met JB. How he’d taken me in. How he’d
been the ﬁrst trader on the desk to talk to me, how he’d given me my ﬁrst
book. I remember how he’d comforted me when I’d lost eight million dollars.
I remembered the exact words that he’d said to me—“tough times don’t last,tough people do.” Then I looked into his red face and I saw four luxury ﬂats,
overlooking Big Ben.
I stuck my tongue deep into my cheek and bit down on it hard.
“Tough times don’t last JB. Tough people do.”
—
JB blew up. He picked up his heavy brown handphone and launched it full
speed into his screens. The phone hit his central screen squarely in the
middle, which buckled and splintered, and the phone bounced harmlessly
back onto his desk. Nothing shattered. Screens aren’t what they used to be, I
suppose. I distinctly remember thinking that the whole action, which had
itself been swift, decisive and athletic, had made disappointingly little sound.
JB was clearly as disappointed as I was. He picked up the phone and
smashed it, full strength, onto his desk at least seven or eight times, each
strike punctuated with a distinctively Australian “fuck.”
This was much more eﬀective with regards to noise output.
There was a brief moment of calm during which everyone looked at JB
and JB looked into the future. He still had the phone in his right hand. Again,
almost as if physical reﬂex, his left hand reached out to his speakerbox, and
his right hand brought the phone to his ear.
“Robbie where’s three months?”
He’d pressed the button for another broker.
“ROBBIE WHERE’S THREE MONTHS!?!?”
A short pause, and then a FUCK and a BANG simultaneously as the
phone came down hard on the desk. It was gratifying.
“Timmie where’s three months? FUCK!” Bang!
“Millzy where’s three months? FUCK!” Bang!
He was going down the broker lines one at a time. There was a real
musicality to it, a beauty.
“JB WHAT’S GOING ON?”
Chuck had his hands around his mouth and was calling out to JB in a
perfectly natural manner, as if the commotion were entirely external. JB wasvery busy so he didn’t reply.
“GARY WHAT’S GOING ON?”
It was not a simple question to answer. I reeled through a few possible
responses in my mind. Eventually I settled on: “I THINK JB’S PHONE IS
BROKEN.”
Which I assumed to be factually correct.
Chuck nodded with a great deal of understanding, as if JB’s behavior was
the only natural response to being a trader who has a broken phone, and he
hauled himself out of his chair. He walked slowly to the opposite end of the
desk, past JB and past me, where there was a small cabinet of supplies. He
leaned himself with great diﬃculty down to the bottom draw, from which he
pulled a replacement large, heavy brown handphone, with a long, curled,
dangling wire attached.
What Chuck did next I will never understand. Rather than walking down
across the desk, like a sensible human being, and handing the phone to JB, he
shouted,
“HERE YOU GO JB.”
And he threw the phone into the air.
It seemed to me to travel in slow motion. It was a high, arcing throw that
scraped the trading ﬂoor’s high ceiling. It reached its apex above Titzy’s head,
to my right. Titzy was looking directly upward. It started to come down above
my head, and I ducked and stepped back.
I needn’t have, because Chuck never missed. The phone landed perfectly,
squarely, in the center of JB’s bald head.
I waited. Everyone waited. For a moment the trading ﬂoor was perfectly
silent. I wondered if JB would kill Chuck.
But he didn’t. He just stopped. He did nothing. He stopped pressing the
buttons. He stopped smashing his phone. He gently lowered himself down
into his chair and he seemed to think very, very deeply. He ﬂicked up one of
the switches to one of his brokers instead of using the buttons, which allowed
him to communicate without having to use his broken phone and had, in fact,
always been an option.
“Where’s three months?”“41–44.”
“Can you get me two yards at 44?”
A brief pause and then: “Yes, do you want it?”
“Mine 2 yards. 44.”
After that JB did nothing. He just sat and breathed deeply for about ﬁve
minutes. At one point he reached up with his right hand and touched the top
of his head and then looked at his ﬁngers, as if checking for blood. After that
he stood up and went home.
I didn’t think you could knock sense into people by hitting them on the
head. I thought that only happened in cartoons. But who knows, maybe you
can.
That was the third last thing that Chuck ever did.
—
Back at home, Harry was getting worried. I wasn’t going out. All I did was
cook food and make money.
Word of me was going around the market and Harry had heard it. It was
clear I was becoming a big deal. Harry couldn’t understand why I didn’t want
to enjoy it. Neither could I, to be honest. He used to invite my mates round to
drink up and try to convince me to go clubbing. On my birthday he threw a
big surprise party and invited everyone to an expensive VIP table at Cargo. I
pretended to go to the bathroom and then I snuck out and I took the bus
home.
Harry kept going on and on at me, and I could see that it came from a
good place. So eventually I told him, OK, we can go to one party. There was
going to be some kind of Summer Event at the Matchstick Factory where we
lived. Some girl had been smiling at me at the gym down there, so I ﬁgured
she’d go. I just wanted to show the kid that I still had it in me.
We went there and she was there with her friend. I’d brought along a one-
liter bottle of Bacardi and I asked them if they wanted to drink. Turned out
they did. I ain’t really much of a charmer, but I can drop a move if I have to.The four of us went out to a bar until the early hours, way past my usual
bedtime. My eyes were drooping and I thought Harry liked her, so I ﬁgured I
would just let it go. I asked the friend, who turned out to be her ﬂatmate, if
she wanted to go to McDonald’s, and then we got a night bus home. I fell
asleep the moment I sat down on the bus, and when I woke up she was
stroking my hair.
—
Snoopy got married that summer. He didn’t invite none of us to the wedding
except Bill.
Snoopy was still betting on economic recovery, and I was over in the
corner trying to convince him that weren’t going to happen, when Chuck
came over and said: “How’s married life treating ya!?”
Snoopy was sitting down and Chuck was standing directly behind him, so
he had to kind of twist and arch his neck.
“Ermmm…It’s all right Chuck, yeah. It’s all right, it’s all right…It’s good!”
“Ah come on, what do you mean it’s good!? Gimme some details!!”
“I don’t know Chuck, what do you want me to say? It’s nice! I work all
day, I get home, she’s cooked dinner…It’s nice!”
Chuck wasn’t happy with that.
“Well, what does she cook you?”
“What do you mean what does she cook me? Every day she cooks
something diﬀerent!”
“Well…What did she cook you last night?”
Snoop thought for a bit.
“Last night…last night she cooked…pa sta bake.”
Chuck’s face creased and his forehead wrinkled. He scratched his head
and looked oﬀ to the side.
“Pasta?,” he asked, with incredulity. And then: “Pasta!?,” once again.
He leaned his heavy weight down into the desk so that he could look
Snoopy in the eye, and asked with the earnestness of a child, “Pasta…with
curry?!?”Me and Snoopy laughed about that for a long time, we had to take a bit of
time away from the desk.
That was the second last thing Chuck ever did.
—
“There’s something about her. I think she’s a wizard.”
That’s how Harry described her once, when he was drunk. The girl from
the party, the one who took me home on the bus. After that she was always
called Wizard.
Wizard had this white skin and these huge green eyes and this long,
straight, blond hair. In the moonlight she was all a pale blue.
I tried to explain what my job was.
“It doesn’t sound like you like it much,” she’d said to me.
“What do you mean I don’t like it? Of course I like it!”
“If you don’t like it, you know, you should just quit. That’s what I’d do.”
And then I said: “Look, I ain’t looking for nothing serious, you know. I
don’t think I’ll be around for that long. I’ve gotta go somewhere, and I don’t
really know where that place is. I think you should ﬁnd someone else.”
—
Chuck called us all into a room. I was allowed to be in the room this time
because I was no longer the desk junior. It was Titzy sat out on the desk.
The room was ﬂooded with sunlight. Chuck always managed to get the
best rooms. There was a long table and Chuck was at the head of it with the
window behind him. I was standing next to JB. Across from us, Bill sat with
Snoopy. The other traders were dotted around.
Chuck said that a couple of weeks previously he had gotten lost on the way
home. Chuck said that that was not the ﬁrst time he had gotten lost. But it
was the ﬁrst time his wife had found out, and she’d sent him to the hospital.
Chuck had a tumor in his brain the size of a tennis ball.
“So I’ve got to take some time oﬀ from work.”I looked across at Billy and his eyes were already on me, and he kept
looking at me for some time, and JB dug his elbow into my upper arm and I
could feel the warmth of his skin through my sleeve.
“But it’s OK. The doctors say they can remove it. So I shouldn’t be oﬀ the
desk that long.”
With that, my eyes were brought back to the dark shadow of Chuck
outlined by the window, and his thick glasses, and his broad smile, and his
haircut that was the same as my father’s.
And that was the last thing that Chuck ever did. I never saw Chuck again.
4
WIZARD’S BEDROOM WAS ACROSS THE garden from mine and three ﬂoors up, and
I could see her curtains move when I lay in my bed. We used to go to
Greenwich Park and watch the sun go down across the skyscrapers, from the
top of a hill, in the middle of the world.
“When you say you’ve gotta go somewhere, what do you mean?”
“I dunno. I just mean, I’ve gotta go somewhere. I can’t stay in this place
my whole life.”
“Where will you go?”
“I don’t know. Japan? Sail to Chile? Somewhere far away. Somewhere not
here.”
“This is about that job, isn’t it? You hate that job. Why don’t you just quit
it?”
She didn’t understand. Inside of me were twenty-nine million dollars, and
each one screaming, “You can’t quit.”
—
We begged Billy to do it, me and Snoopy. We knew if it wasn’t him, it was
gonna be the Frog. We didn’t think he’d actually do it though, but he did.
Billy became the head of the desk.
I don’t know why he said yes, Billy hated managing. He swore at the sales
guys and the traders on the other desks, and when the phone used to ring andme or Titzy used to answer it, he’d slice his hand across his throat wildly as if
to say, “Tell him I’m not here.”
Nobody wanted to speak to the Slug when he rang. Bill wouldn’t speak to
him, JB wouldn’t speak to him. Nobody was making any money, and nobody
was expecting a bonus, so nobody gave a shit. Nobody except me of course, I
gave a lot of shits.
So it was me who spoke to the Slug when he called. I’d say to him, “Billy’s
oﬀ desk boss, but listen, is there anything that I can do for you?”
And the Slug told me he wanted Citibank to become the biggest foreign
exchange bank in the whole world by traded volume, so I started trading
almost a trillion a day.
—
Harry was trying to get with Wizard’s ﬂatmate, but I don’t think he was
making any cut through. He started asking me to arrange outings for the four
of us more and more, and before long we were out every other weekend.
Harry and me never really used to go out together, when we were kids. It
was more of a football and PlayStation relationship. It had only been a couple
years that he had even been allowed to drink legally, so I’d never really been
out drinking with him. As a result, this was the ﬁrst time in my life that I
realized the guy was a ﬁend. He could drink more than my body weight.
Lesser men would have been killed.
Once he’d ﬁlled himself to the nostrils with alcohol his left eye would go
wonky and instead of talking to you he’d lean right through you and talk one
foot behind you, his forehead pushing deep into yours, and then he’d lurch
and paw at Wizard’s ﬂatmate on the dance ﬂoor and she’d push him away and
grimace.
—
I didn’t care. I was only for numbers. Trade volumes and PnL numbers and
central bank auctions and seven hundred, eight hundred, nine hundred billion
dollars of single-day loans every day. Kids from the internship or the gradscheme used to come and sit behind me in twos and threes and they’d say,
“How did you ﬁgure that trade out, Gary? What’s your entry level?”
And I’d say, “Who the fuck cares about my entry level? Entry levels are in
the past man. All I care about is today and tomorrow, I don’t keep numbers I
don’t need in my head.”
Then the interns would get scared and they’d shuﬄe oﬀ for lunch.
Titzy said, “You shouldn’t be so mean to the interns. They call you The
Legend, you know.”
I knew. I just didn’t give a shit.
“Listen, you’re a good trader. Maybe more than good, maybe you’re great.
But you’re not as smart as you think you are. I see you pick out the highs and
the lows, but it isn’t from genius. It’s out of instinct for you. For you it’s a
game.”
I didn’t say nothing. That didn’t deserve a response.
“You’ve got a big problem Gary, and you’ve got to ﬁx it.”
Here we fucking go.
“What’s that then Titzy?”
“You are, how we say, Homo Homini Lupus.”
This guy, man.
“What the fuck is Homo Homini Lupus?”
“It’s Latin, Gary. It means ‘Man is Wolf to Man.’ ”
I’d had enough of this shit.
“Titzy, stand up, look around you.”
I stood up and I spread my arms wide.
“Look at these guys. Every single one of these motherfuckers. Every single
one of them’s got their hand in my pocket. Every one of them is stealing my
cash. So don’t talk about homo homini lupus to me, son, we are both of us
surrounded by wolves.”
At the time, I felt that that was a compelling argument. I guess that means
Titzy was probably right.
—I did have a point though. Suddenly, I was one of the biggest traders in the
whole world, and the world sure wanted a piece of the action. Kids would
turn up on the trading ﬂoor patting me on the back, talking about what a great
time we’d had back at LSE, and I wouldn’t even recognize their faces. When
the Slug came over, I had to have lunch with him one on one. It was
disgusting.
More than anyone else though, the brokers went crazy. It was impossible
to get them oﬀ of me. They were growing up my skin like a rash. One
company hired some Z-list celebrity to cover my line in an attempt to win my
business. When I googled him there was a picture of him on a beach
somewhere, drinking a cocktail out of a pineapple with a straw. Another
company hired a kid from my old high school just because he said that he
knew me. Every single one of them was taking me out. Restaurants, football
games, holidays. It started to make me so sick I brought in a “Nando’s Only”
rule. You wanna meet me? We go to Canary Wharf Nando’s—you pay for
you, I pay for me. But eventually I was eating too much Nando’s so I had to
can that as well, and then I didn’t meet anyone at all.
—
The Bosses sent the Frog over to replace Bill. It was bound to happen
eventually. Billy was still holding on to this idea that the economy was going
to recover, and he was barely keeping his own head above water. Between
him and JB they had managed to piss oﬀ just about everyone on the ﬂoor.
Nobody was managing the desk and I still needed to get paid so I had pretty
much taken over. They weren’t going to let a twenty-four-year-old manage the
desk forever.
For me, the Frog’s simple presence was physically unbearable. He made
me feel sick. I never forgot the way that guy fucked me over, and I itched
when he spoke. The ﬁrst thing he did was he hauled me into a meeting room
and said he was thinking about taking JB’s job. He didn’t tell JB, he told me,
which meant that I had to sit next to JB for a whole month without telling him
he was about to be axed.—
It wasn’t just me the brokers were trying to take out, they were taking Harry
out too. I don’t know if they were using him to get to me or if they just liked
him, but Harry and the brokers were a match made in heaven. You see,
brokers mine you for vices. They feel you all over with their dirty hands till
they notice a weak spot, then they cram their fat ﬁngers inside of it and they
ﬁll you right up with whatever you need. Harry had a lot of weak spots. He
was everywhere—pubs, restaurants, clubs, brasshouses, and he was taking
drugs I’d never even heard of. I knew when he was on the meow meow
because I’d wake up in the morning with forty-seven indecipherable text
messages and he’d be standing, tweaking, in his room.
—
Should I have defended JB? Probably. Would he have defended me? 100%
yes. But I was up over thirty-one million dollars by that point and I was keen
to get paid on them. I’d have probably let the Frog take my mum’s job if he’d
asked nice enough.
So the Frog took JB’s job on the euro book. That made him my partner,
which meant that I had to sit next to him every day. He sent JB to go sit in the
corner and trade Aussie until he could ﬁnd a good reason to ﬁre him.
As soon as he had JB out the way, he came for me.
“Listen Gary, we’ve got a problem. You know, you’re a great trader, and
you’re having a great year, but the desk’s really struggling…And the bank’s
really struggling…I’m not sure we’re going to be able to pay you.”
I felt the blood rush to my hands and my head and I felt a bit dizzy. I
wanted to spit on the ﬂoor.
I looked at the Frog. Everything he wore was sticking to him and falling
oﬀ of him, as if his body was made of the wrong Lego pieces. The fucker
was smiling.
Who the Fuck was this guy? Wide-mouth, shabby-haired, baggy-faced-
looking motherfucker coming over here and telling me he can’t pay me. Doeshe know what I’ve been through for this? No he doesn’t, to him it’s a game.
This amount of money is more than my family made in twenty-ﬁve fucking
generations and for this guy it’s nothing but a game.
Well I’ll tell you, it weren’t a game to me.
There’s a lesson in here somewhere. Something like, protect the people
around you when they are getting fucked over, or else there’ll be no one there
when they come to fuck you.
Na, fuck that, I ain’t here for lessons and I don’t protect no one. I protect
myself. I always have.
—
Harry was never home anymore, and when he was, he was dribbling on the
ﬂoor.
I had the ﬂat to myself in the evenings, me and Wizard, cooking pasta and
watching movies. It was the ﬁrst time I’d ever watched movies, to be honest.
I told her that some Fat-Frog-Looking-Motherfucker was trying to fuck
me over and not pay me but I wasn’t gonna take it, and she said to me,
“Those guys, they just don’t understand you. No one understands you but
me. Listen, I’ve bought some brown paint and I’m going to paint one of the
walls in my living room. Do you want to come over and paint it together?”
—
I used to get called by headhunters all the time back then. Every week, a few
times a week. Previously, I’d been cutting them oﬀ but I started to answer. I
asked them to email me on my personal email address which, at the time, was
“Thegazman1000@hotmail.com,” and they’d ask me to spell it out for them
and then they’d be like, “Thegazman1000@hotmail.com?”
And I’d be like, “Yeah, that’s right, Thegazman1000@hotmail.com. Is
there something wrong with Thegazman1000@hotmail.com?”
And then they’d say, “No no no, no no no. That’s ﬁne.”
Then they’d get me interviews.I interviewed with Barclays. I interviewed with Bank of America. I
interviewed with Goldman. For the interview with Goldman I turned up in
my hoodie and trainers and I told them that I deﬁnitely didn’t want the job.
They put me through to the second round after that.
At every interview I made sure to get a business card from the managing
director. I’d take a photo of it, then bring it into the oﬃce, and leave it on the
Frog’s desk in the morning. He needed to know there’d be consequences if I
didn’t get my cut.
I asked the headhunters what a fair cut was. They said 7 percent. Seven
percent of thirty-two million dollars. It had to be mine.
5
I CLOSED OUT THAT BIG US dollar OIS trade I’d done through Harry earlier in
the year. I made nine million dollars on that one single trade. I made sure to
close it through Harry, with the Deutsche Bank trader, the exact trader with
whom I’d put it on. Then I got Harry to calculate the PnL to see how much
I’d made in that one trade from just that one guy. I’d like to tell you I did it
because I wanted to give the kid something to look up to. The truth is
probably that I knew he was singing my praises in every bar in the Square
Mile, and I wanted to build up my reputation before bonus day.
Things were getting tetchy with Harry. He was fucked pretty much all of
the time. He’d come home at midnight all wild-eyed and it’d wake me up and
I’d say to him, “Bruv are you on cocaine?”
And he’d say, “Na, I don’t take cocaine.”
And I’d say, “Yes you fuckin do mate, you’re on it right fuckin now. What
would your mum say if she knew you were taking cocaine?”
And then he’d change the subject and he’d stumble and he’d say, “Mate,
how much money are you gonna get paid this year?”
And I’d say, “I don’t know mate, two million dollars?”
Then he’d laugh and poke me in the chest and say, “Why the fuck do you
get paid so much money? I work ten times harder than you!”
And I’d say, “It ain’t about how hard you work mate, never has been,” and
I’d go back to bed and leave him to fall over his shoes.
—Things were getting tetchy in the oﬃce as well. Sitting next to the Frog was
making me sick. He’d tell these horrible jokes and I’d have no choice but to
laugh at them and every time I did I’d get this sharp twinge of acidic bile
shoot up from my stomach and through my heart and into my throat and there
was nothing to do with it but swallow it down. We were coming into
December now and I was nearly up thirty-ﬁve million dollars. I couldn’t let
one single thing go wrong.
JB was still sitting over there in the corner where the Frog had sent him
and there was something wrong with him. He’d lost a lot of weight and he
was getting real skinny now, and when I looked round at him his mouth was
moving slightly as if he was talking real quiet, and he started doing this
twitchy kind of thing with his eye.
I weren’t sleeping that much.
—
One night I got woken up at 1:30 a.m. There was some sort of commotion in
the living room. I opened my door and what was I confronted with but Harry
and a bunch of Clapham-looking dickheads that I hadn’t never before seen
snorting cocaine oﬀ my dining-room table.
Harry looked up at me gormlessly, beaming.
“You all right Gal!”
I was wearing nothing but a pair of underpants. The other brokers
(because they had to be brokers) were less fucked than Harry and they kind
of nodded awkwardly and looked round the room.
I stood in the doorway for a moment. Then I walked through them and
into the kitchen. I took a glass out of the cabinet and I slammed it down on
the counter, and I ﬁlled it up with milk. I took it back into the center of the
living room, drinking it, slowly, in my underpants, and I stood there, right in
the middle of all of them, staring each of those cunts in the face, one by one.
They started looking around for their jackets and putting their shoes on
and saying things like,
“Anyway Harry mate, I think I gotta go.”And Harry was saying, “Oh don’t go mate, we only just started!”
But within a minute they had all disappeared, and I was going back to bed,
and Harry was shouting after me, “Why you always got to ruin my fun!?”
—
The Frog was away the next day, so I was covering the whole euro book by
myself. I was pissed and I weren’t talking to no one, not even Titzy. Just
sitting there and doing my job.
About 2 p.m. a message from the IB chat dinged up on my screen. It said,
“Met your bird last night mate. She’s pretty ﬁt mate. Well done.”
The name next to it was “Quentin Benting.”
I didn’t know no stupid fucks called Quentin Benting.
I must have been staring daggers into the screen or something because JB
walked past and he noticed and he said, “Fucking hell mate. What’s wrong?”
I didn’t say nothing, I just pointed to the message on the screen and JB
squinted his old eyes and he looked at it and he said, “Fuuuuuuucking hell
mate! Who the fuck’s Quentin Benting?”
I was shaking my head, “I don’t fucking know mate,” and I opened the
message. It showed his company in brackets in big capital letters after his
name: (ICAP PLC).
Neither of us said anything for a moment. We just stood side by side with
our hands on our chins and we thought about what should be done. Then JB
leaned over and pressed my switch down to ICAP: “All business from
Citibank to ICAP is oﬀ, permanently. If you wanna know why, ask Quentin
Benting.”
Then he turned round and announced to the desk: “Everyone go down
your ICAP lines and tell them no business from Citi. If they wanna know
why, tell ’em ask Quentin Benting.”
Then he reached his hands to his mouth and shouted out loud across the
ﬂoor,
“ALL LINES ARE OFF FROM CITI TO ICAP. IF ANYONE WANTS
TO KNOW WHY, TELL THEM TO ASK QUENTIN BENTING.”IB chat requests were already cascading down the side of my screen. The
dings were bouncing in before the last one could ﬁnish. JB patted me a few
times on the back of the neck, and then he went oﬀ to the bathroom and
snorted cocaine.
ICAP was a big broking company. It was one of the two biggest broking
companies in London. They had brokers in every single product, meaning
every single trader on the whole ﬂoor had at least one ICAP broker. At that
exact moment, every single one of those fat bastards was putting down their
cheeseburgers in a wild apoplexy and marching across the broking ﬂoor to the
seat of one Quentin Benting, a seat that sat immediately next to a very young,
very hungover, and very nervous Harry Sambhi.
—
I messaged Wizard. Apparently she had been out with her ﬂatmate when
Harry and a bunch of drunk, coked-up brokers had turned up in the bar. The
girls tried to leave, but since the girls and Harry all lived in the same
development the guys kind of followed them home, and they all ended up in
my ﬂat. The girls didn’t stick around long, so, when I woke up, all I saw was a
bunch of coked-up fat lads. I guess one of them must have been Quentin
Benting.
When I got home, Harry was disconsolate. He was pacing the ﬂat with his
oversized shoes on, sobbing hoarsely with his head in his hands.
“What the fuck are you doing? What the fuck are you doing!? We’re
gonna get ﬁred! We’re both gonna get ﬁred!!”
“What the fuck do you mean what am I doing, what the fuck are you
doing!? Who the fuck’s this fucking cunt Quentin Benting? And it wasn’t me
anyway it was fucking JB!”
“Yeah but you can fucking stop it. Fucking stop it, you can stop it! Put the
lines back in, open them up!”
“Why the fuck should I put the fucking lines back in!? That fucking
dickhead’s gotta learn a fucking lesson and so should you mate. What the
fuck are you doing!?”“What do you mean what am I doing? I didn’t do anything! What the fuck
have I done?”
“Listen you fucking idiot,” and I was right into his face now, “I’m fucking
one month away from being a fucking multimillionaire mate. And I can’t
aﬀord to make no fucking mistakes and what the fuck are you doing? You are
bringing four fat fucking cunts, who are in the fucking MARKET, into my
fucking HOUSE at one fucking a.m. on a fucking worknight, and you are
snorting cocaine oﬀ of my fucking placemats that’s what the fuck you are
doing. Are you fucking stupid or what!?”
Harry didn’t say nothing. We just stood there with our noses touching.
“What would your mum think? What would your mum think if she knew
what you were doing? Don’t think I don’t know what you’re doing because I
fucking know. I know where you go at nights, I know what you do. What
would she think? What would she think if she could see you now and if she
could see me now? Would she be proud of us? If she knew how you lived?”
Harry pushed me hard in the chest and it was all I could do just to stay on
my feet.
“Don’t talk about my fucking mum you’re not my fucking dad mate! It’s
not your fucking job to look after me I look after myself!”
“Oh yeah and how is that going? How the fuck are you doing? Where the
fuck is your dad? Who the fuck is looking after you? Who cooks your
fucking dinners? Who pays your fucking bills? Who the fuck got you your
fucking job and who the fuck takes you to work when you’re too fucked to
get yourself out of bed? That’s fucking right I fucking do. I’m the one who
fucking looks after you and I’m the one who’s making this money and all
you’re doing is fucking it up!”
“Yeah and why though Gary? Why Gary? Why? Why the fuck are you
making this money Gary, you never fucking spend it! You never fucking
enjoy it! You never fucking go anywhere, you never fucking do anything, you
never even talk to your fucking mum! When was the last time we went
fucking Orient with your dad mate? Fucking never! We never fucking go
mate, we never do anything! You never even fucking talk to your friends!
What the fuck are you doing? What the fuck is it all for? You talk aboutIlford like it fucking matters to you, like it fucking means something like
you’re doing it for them. You never even fucking GO to fucking Ilford! When
was the last time you’ve been? You never talk to anyone from Ilford, you
never talk to anyone at all! What the fuck is it for Gary? What the fuck is it
for?”
There was nothing to say to that, so I left him. I walked out the ﬂat and I
went to the gym. When I came back he was passed out on the sofa, and his
dribble had pooled on the ﬂoor.
—
The next day I arranged a meeting on the quayside. Me, Quentin Benting, his
boss. I arranged it with the boss, not with Quentin. I didn’t want to talk with
that cock.
Quentin was in his mid-thirties. His boss was in his forties. They knew, I
know that they knew. They knew about the kid’s situation, that he didn’t have
no family, they knew they should have taken better care.
I told them. I told them that I’d promised his mum I’d look after him and
I’d be fucked if I was gonna let those two fat fuckers wash his life down a
drainhole of pussy and drugs. I asked them what they thought of themselves,
fucking grown men and what they’d done with a twenty-year-old kid.
They promised me they’d take better care of him. I don’t know if they ever
did. I walked back onto the ﬂoor and I shouted: “LINES ARE BACK ON
WITH ICAP.”
6
THEN IT WAS BONUS DAY.
Of the day itself, I remember only numbers. My PnL was just over thirty-
ﬁve million dollars. The fair rate for my work was 7 percent. That is pretty
much it. I don’t remember the room. I don’t remember receiving the bonus. I
don’t remember the Frog’s ugly face.
I remember that I knew exactly, to the dollar, the amount that I wanted. I
don’t remember now what that number was, but it was 7 percent of just over
thirty-ﬁve million dollars, so it must have been something like 2.45 million
dollars.
As soon as the number turned over, I forgot it. It was another dead number
from the past. I don’t keep numbers I don’t need in my head. Thirty-ﬁve times
nought point zero seven. That was what I got. That was what I deserved.
Everyone was happy.
Job done.
When I cycled home that evening, in the dark and the cold and the white
breath of an East London January night, I cut through Chrisp Street Market,
like I always did. There’s a huge mural there, it’s my favorite graﬃti. An
enormous, six-story Chihuahua, up on its hind legs, with its tongue out, and
there, at the bottom, is a halal fried chicken shop. I looked at the fried
chicken shop, sweating and glowing red in the darkness, and there, tucked
down the side of it, was an old gray man who was tucking a mattress cover
around the edges of a large, beaten-up mattress. The mattress cover was
luminescent. It was a gleaming, sparkling white, or rather a bright blue in themoonlight. It simply must have been fresh out the packet. I wondered how
such an old, gray man, tucked down an alleyway beside a fried chicken shop
could possibly have gotten such a brand new, sparkling white mattress cover.
And then, suddenly, for the ﬁrst time in twenty-ﬁve years in the city, when I
breathed in, I felt the cold air of London come into me, come inside of me,
and it ﬁlled up my lungs, and it burnt them, and I just couldn’t understand
why.
—
When I got home, I was doing my investments, in a small oﬃce area I had in
the corner of my living room. It was a lot of money: I had to invest it.
Wizard came round. I looked at her as she came in and I noticed that when
she saw me her face caught a pale shadow of worry. I turned back to my
screen. She came over and she stroked my hair.
“How was it? Are you happy?”
“It was good. It was great. It was what I deserved.”
“You don’t seem very happy.”
“Well, you know, it’s a lot of money, I’ve got to invest it. It’s stressful.”
Wizard paused then for only a moment. Her hand was still resting on my
hair.
“You know, if I’d made as much money as you just have, the last thing I’d
be doing is sitting down, all alone, in the corner of my living room stressing
out.”
As soon as she said that, I knew she was right, and I really fucking hated
her for that.
—
The next day, in the oﬃce, it was all the same.
Same people, same noises, same pink and white shirts.
Same economy, same fucking trade.
I’d cleaned the book out by the end of the year, but it was a new year now,
so I needed a new trade.No, actually, I didn’t need a new trade. I didn’t need a new trade because
nothing had changed.
Same inequality, still growing and growing, same families losing the same
homes. Same inability to spend. Same fucking nothing. No growth, no
fucking improvement. I picked up my phone and I put it back on, the disaster
trade second year running.
You know what? It made me a ton.
—
Part of my grand thesis about the economy had been that the rich would get
richer and richer and everyone else would get poorer and poorer and that
would mean that interest rates would stay zero forever because there would
never be enough spending power in the economy to ever drive prices seriously
up.
But that didn’t refer to all prices. The reason prices struggle to rise when
inequality rises is because the rich spend a way lower proportion of their
income on goods and services than ordinary people. But the ﬂip of that is that
they spend way way more on assets. The rich were accumulating money at an
ever-increasing pace, and would also now have access to super-low interest
rate loans. Those two things were inevitably going to combine to push asset
prices up massively, including stock prices and house prices.
That worried me, because I had just been given a shit ton of money, and I
didn’t have a house, so I went and viewed some fancy apartment on some
fancy marina just down the road from the oﬃce and I bid 5 percent through
the asking price and I went and bought it just like that.
I took Harry down to see it one night and we were standing on the balcony
looking out at the boats, and he was smoking and I wasn’t and I said to him,
“I’m buying this place, Harry. You know what that means, right?”
And he said to me, “Yeah man, it’s gonna be great! We’re gonna have a
great time! It’s so big, I can’t wait!”
And I said to him, “No, Harry, I’m buying this place. Me. Not you. I’m
buying this place and you’re gonna go home.”I still remember how the moon looked in his eyes.
—
I no longer gave one single shit in the oﬃce. I didn’t talk to no one, I barely
even talked to Titzy. Titzy and my brokers did the bare minimum trading for
me that was needed and the whole thing just poured money in. All I did was
sit there with my headphones in, reading the paper. By the end of March I
was up another nine million dollars.
The Frog never once asked me how I was making so much money. Neither
did the Slug. I think they preferred not to know, just in case. But I wasn’t
laughing at the Frog’s jokes anymore. In fact, I’d stopped talking to him at all
unless it was absolutely necessary, so he hauled me into an oﬃce and he said
to me, “We’re worried about you Gary. We’re worried you might not be a
team player. We want you to be one of us.”
I hadn’t really been listening, but that last bit caught my attention so I
asked him, “What do you mean, ‘one of us’?”
The Frog dropped his oblong head and leaned it into me conspiratorially
and he said, “Listen Gary, you’re a great trader, you’re super smart, you’ve got
a bright future. You could be like us, you could be in management. But, I
don’t know…There is some sort of problem. We don’t really know what you
want.”
“What do you mean, what I want?”
“Well…You don’t seem to be motivated by money and…I’m not sure I
really understand you. Me, and the rest of senior management…W e want to
know…What do you want?”
I was looking at the guy and obviously I was thinking, “Well, it would be
nice for you to stop being such an unbearable prick.”
But I was tired. I was real, real tired. And even though I wasn’t laughing at
the jokes anymore I was still getting that acidic pain in my chest, and it was
really bad right at that moment, so I just kneaded my heart hard with my ﬁst
and I said to him, “Frog, I just want to be more of a team player. I want to be
a team player and make more for the bank.”—
A bunch of big-shot traders from other banks wanted to meet me, so they got
Billy’s brokers to ask him if he would bring me out. I wasn’t going out much,
at that point in my life, but it was Billy, so I went.
It was a cavernous room, low and dark, lit with candles, and a long straight
table had been set up, all laden with food, stretching out lengthwise across the
back of the room.
Traders lined up on both sides of the table, and when Bill and I walked in
they were already eating. I could see the backs of the traders facing away
from us, hunched over and bulging through their white shirts as they lent over
and into their food.
An enormous man stood up and reached over the table, the two brokers
opposite him parting like the Red Sea as he lent me his hand.
“Carlo Lengua, Senior Sterling trader, Credit Suisse.”
“Gary, Gary Stevenson,” I told him, and Bill said nothing and we went to
our chairs.
Our seats were on the end, on the right side, and from there I could see the
whole table and the two lines of men.
What I remember most about them was their physicality. Muscle and fat in
perfect harmony, in abundance, marbled together as in Japanese cows. And
mirroring the abundance of their bodies, the abundance of the table, plate
upon plate of meat, ever-ﬂowing wine topped up by invisible waiters.
It became clear very quickly that this was Carlo’s party. Carlo sat at the
center of the table and spoke loudly, picking men at intervals and bringing
them into the conversation. He ate and he drank as he spoke and held court,
and there was nothing to do but behold. Billy went to the bar and he bought
us two beers.
Carlo had made a lot of money. A lot of money. That dripped from all that
was said and was done. He wanted to be surrounded by the best traders, all, in
the world, and he went round and he spoke of each one of us, in turn.
He knew about me, and he knew about Billy. Even though I had no idea
who he was. He spoke of how great we were, as traders, quite loudly since wewere all the way down the end of the table. Billy and I nodded and we held up
our beers.
Billy drank quickly. Very quickly. Within less than an hour he was gone
and he stood up and he Scousely slurred something, and I quickly stood up
and said something more polite and more comprehensible than he had said
and then I helped him get to the front door.
“FOKKKIN…Carl…Fokkin…CARL LENGUA!!”
I’d called Bill’s taxi driver from Bill’s phone, and Bill had chosen to use
our waiting time to point wildly and dance. He grabbed me by both sides of
my shirt collar and decided to repeat once more, for emphasis, in my face.
“FUCKIN CARL LENGUA! FUCK HIM! FUCK FUCKIN CARL
LENGUA! HE LOOKS LIKE A FUCKING FAT ROMAN EMPEROR!
FUCK THAT FUCKING…FUCKin…Dickhead…Fuckin…Cunt?”
He had gotten distracted halfway through that last sentence because he had
seen a fox scuﬄing away in the darkness, and that had unfortunately
compromised somewhat the emphasis of his swearing. He was still holding
my collar though, so I slapped him a little and said, “Bill!”
And that managed to get him back.
“Listen. Gal. If you ever, fuckin ever. End up like that Fat Roman Cunt. I
will fucking, fucking kill you myself. With these hands!”
And then he pulled his two little hobbit dukes away from my collar and he
waved them about wildly and I thought, “Well, I’d better be careful then,” and
then Bill’s taxi driver ﬁnally turned up and I roly-polyed him head ﬁrst into
the back of the taxi and he rumbled oﬀ to piss on the Bank of England.
I went back downstairs so we could eat a fuck-ton of food and talk about
how great we all were.
Maybe that sounds terrible to you. Maybe that sounds disgusting. But it
wasn’t really that disgusting. By then, I didn’t get disgusted by anything,
anymore. By then, it was just fucking boring. Boring, boring, boring, boring,
boring. I wished that Billy were still there. I wanted to go home to Wizard.
Eventually it got to 10 p.m. and I felt like that was an acceptable time to
leave.“Oh, DON’T go!” screamed Carl. He was nicely reddened and fattened by
now, ready to be removed from the spit.
“I’m sorry Carl. I’ve really got to go. Work in the morning, you know?”
Carl was not happy with that, and he extricated himself from the table, and
he lurched to me across piles of food, and before long I was enmeshed in his
deep wagyu beef and I remember being surprised about how warm and how
soft he all was.
“Don’t go Gary.” I could feel his breath, wet, on my ear.
“Listen, I wasn’t going to tell you this,” quietly, intimately now, “but me
and some of the lads are going out after this. We are going to Dover Street
Wine Bar. Have you been to Dover Street Wine Bar?”
I hadn’t.
“Listen. It’s bloody brilliant. You’ve got to come. Jam full of ﬁt birds.
Eight out of tens, eight and a half out of tens.”
And then he stopped me and he ﬂipped me so that we were now facing
one another and he added, with a fatherly air of correction, while looking
unhesitatingly into my eyes,
“You know, I’m talking about a serious one-to-ten scale here.”
I didn’t go.
I took the train straight home to Bow. And on the walk home from the
station, in the middle of the night, I grabbed hold of the wing mirror of a car,
and I ripped it right oﬀ, for absolutely no reason at all.
7
I TOLD HARRY WE COULD have one ﬁnal blow-out party on our last night together
in the ﬂat. He was delighted and he invited everyone—kids from home, kids
from the City. He got a little over-excited and invited the girls who worked at
the Pret A Manger down the street.
Titzy came, some other kids from Citi came, a couple others who said
they were from Citi but to be honest I didn’t know their names. Asad from
Ilford came. Jalpesh and Aiden and Mashﬁque all came. Wizard’s little sister
came down all the way from Norwich. My older brother came and spent the
whole evening in the kitchen drinking tea. We opened all the doors and
windows and we blasted music into the late hours and we got a ton of
complaints but I didn’t care because I’d already moved all my stuﬀ out and we
were gonna be gone the next day.
There was a moment there, in the middle of that party, when it all seemed
all right, when it all seemed OK. When people from home, and people from
work were all talking and drinking and it all just seemed normal. Asad’s
avant-garde Ukrainian fashion student friends were dancing and taking drugs
and I was leaning out over the balcony with Wizard in the cold night and
looking up at the tall red-brick cylinders of the two-hundred-year-old
matchstick factory chimneys and wondering if we’d ever be there, together,
again.
But I could see it though, deep in the late-night, just before it happened. I
could see his eyes going and his words start to stumble and I could see his feet
losing their grip on the ﬂoor. I knew I was going to lose him. I knew he wasgone, to be honest. I knew he was gone. He held up his whisky bottle high in
the air and then the both of them down to the ground. Bottle and boy
crashing down to the ﬂoor and the brown shards of glass in his hand.
And the blood on the carpet, and it was Wizard who went to him, not me,
and him pawing and lurching all over her as she tried to wrap his hand in a
kitchen towel. And when she’d done just enough to stop the bleeding, I
grabbed her hand and I went and grabbed her sister’s hand and I said, “Come
on. Let’s get the fuck out of here.”
And I didn’t speak to Harry for eight years.
—
I moved into the new ﬂat and ripped everything out. Walls, ﬂoors, lights,
toilets, kitchen sinks. I cleaned it all out till there was nothing there left, just a
clean gray-white, concrete-plaster box.
Gray concrete ﬂoors, white plaster walls.
After that, I was supposed to call builders, get all new things. New
kitchens, new ﬂoors.
But I didn’t. I don’t know why. I couldn’t.
I put a TV down there on the bare concrete of the ﬂoor, and a mattress in
the bedroom as well. And every day I’d wake up at 5:30 a.m., and then I’d
read ﬁve hundred emails, right there, on the ﬂoor.
One day Wizard came round and said, “What are you doing!? You can’t
live like this!”
And I laughed and said, “Looks like I can.”
So she opened up her laptop and went onto some website called
“Freecycle,” and she somehow arranged for some old, broken, tatty, red
corduroy sofa to get delivered into my living room, opposite the TV, and I’d
come home from work every day at 5:30 p.m. and pass out straight onto it,
and I’d wake up every day in the middle of the night at one or two in the
morning, and the curtains would all be wide open, and the moonlight would
be ﬂooding into the wide empty room, and she’d be there, with me, curled upinto a little ball next to me on that tatty red sofa, and I’d stroke her hair and
wake her up and I’d take her to bed.
—
HR used to get me to do all kinds of shit. Giving speeches. Talking to new
graduates. Fuck knows why, maybe they think I’m approachable.
One time, they arranged for a big group of local schoolkids from the area
to come into the building, and they asked me if I could take them up to the
top ﬂoor and give them a speech.
Of course I said “Sure, why not.” That’s the kind of shit guys like me do.
It was only a couple of days before the event that I realized it coincided
with a European Central Bank meeting.
European Central Bank meetings are probably the biggest things that
happen for a euro STIRT trader. You probably shouldn’t spend them telling
local schoolkids about your life. But, you know, fuck it. I’d already promised.
To be honest, I probably would have gotten away with it, but as you know
euro trading on the STIRT desk was a two-man job, me and the Frog, so
when I was on my way to provide the schoolchildren of Poplar with a positive
male role model, the Frog was loudly screaming, “WHERE THE FUCK IS
GARY?” across the trading ﬂoor—an exclamation which soon found its way
to my phone in a text.
I replied to the Frog in the politest way I could think: “I’m really sorry, I
promised HR that I would provide support for local underprivileged school
kids today.”
To which the Frog responded himself rather impolitely, “GET THE
FUCK BACK TO THE DESK!!!”
Which was both rude and insensitive to the high levels of social
deprivation that were manifest in the locality of our workplace, but was also a
relatively clear instruction, so it left me with little choice but to abandon my
civic responsibilities and turn round and head back to the ﬂoor.
Nothing fucking happened during the fucking ECB meeting, so I spent it
writing the following apology email to HR:Dear *name omitted*
Please accept my apologies for my inability to attend, at short notice, the event that you
had kindly arranged.
This happened because my manager *real name omitted* (cc’d) has decided that talking
to local, underprivileged schoolchildren is not a valid use of my energy nor time.
All the best,
Kind Regards,
Gary
The Frog was shouting. Shouting and screaming. All up and down and
wailing and arching and leaning and pacing and waving his arms.
I wasn’t really listening. Every now and again I would give him a nice
thoughtful look, and a nod. Just to be respectful, you know, to let him know I
was with him. But really, I didn’t give a shit.
He’d hauled me oﬀ into a little box room to shout at me and it was just
like I was back at school.
I used to get shouted at a lot at school. Being late, not doing my
homework, talking back to teachers. Selling drugs, also, although that only
happened the once.
The reason I used to be late so much was that I used to have to do my
paper round and then sprint for one and a half miles to try to get to school on
time, and the reason that I didn’t do a lot of my homework was, well, to be
honest because I never really had a safe place to do it.
But, you know, they didn’t really give a shit about stuﬀ like that, did they,
so I used to just let them shout. And I’d look up at them compassionately
sometimes, and I’d nod, and I’d think, well, you know, maybe it’s good for
them. Maybe they’re letting something out.
But mostly I’d sit, with my hands on my chin and my elbows on my knees,
looking down at the ﬂoor, and I’d just let them shout till they ran out of
shouting, just like I was doing right then, in that oﬃce, with the Frog.
And he was shouting and screaming and wailing, and there I was with my
gaze to the ﬂoor.
And that’s when I noticed something for the ﬁrst time.
That I also had holes in my shoes.There, at the outside corners of my Onitsuka Tigers, perfectly
symmetrically, exactly where my two little toes were, were two torn holes,
about two centimeters wide each, and there, ﬂashing through them, two bright
screams of color, my two little toes, in my red Leyton Orient socks.
Fuck man! How long have I had these trainers? Since the ﬁrst year of
university. Fuck man! How long have these holes been there? Fuck man…I
didn’t even know.
Then I looked up and I remembered the Frog was still shouting, and I
looked him in the eyes and I said: “Boss, I don’t think I can do it anymore…
Boss, I think I need to quit.”
And that hit the Frog sharply, like a phone to the head, and the suddenness
of that made me laugh.
“What did you say?”
8
I NEVER THOUGHT THAT I’D see him again, but there the man was.
Big fucking head. Big fucking shoulders. Big fucking ﬁngers on big
fucking hands.
He stood, as he always stood, backlit by the sun, though the window was
more distant now. Caleb Zucman.
I hadn’t seen him come in or walk round to the desk because, as was my
wont at that time in my life, I had been trading with my hood up and my
earphones in. Titzy, who was young and impressionable, had adopted the
earphones, but had not felt quite conﬁdent enough for the hood, so he had
noticed when JB, the Frog, Snoopy and Billy all stood up and mobbed the
man on the end of the desk.
He tugged at my sleeve, and I pulled out an earbud and he said to me,
“Hey! Who’s that guy?”
It was then that I turned and I saw them. An orgy of back pats at the end
of the desk. It had been three years since I saw the man last. He looked the
same, just a little bit smaller, in the same way that your grandad does after
you’ve had a growth spurt.
All the traders had left their seats and gone to him, except Titzy, who’d
never met him before, and me.
I didn’t stand up though. I turned my chair and I looked at him. The acid
was riddling my heart.
I needed to ask the man, “Why?”
You can’t just ask a man, “Why did you come back?”It’s disrespectful.
To do so would be to imply that the venture upon which the man departed
had been a failure. You don’t do such a thing to a man such as Caleb. You
must artfully disguise your question.
Likewise, Caleb, who had himself always been a master of the art of
conversation, recognized the impropriety of asking me, now Citibank’s most
proﬁtable trader, directly why it was that I, only a week earlier, had told the
Frog that I wanted to quit trading, and then, when pressed on my reason for
such a weighty decision, had pointed to the holes in my shoes (a justiﬁcation
rather generally considered somewhat unsatisfactory) before rapidly de-
escalating my demands from my own summary dismissal to merely a long-
term sabbatical, a request which was still formally under consideration.
For these reasons, as Caleb, JB and Billy and I sat on the veranda of a
Japanese restaurant a few hours later on that warm, summer day, drinking
many drinks deep into the late evening, and looking out at the moon rising
over the Thames, the truest questions in the hearts of all four of us men were
never to be heard by the air.
Would you believe that the Japanese drink rice wine from a wooden box?
They really do. They place a glass inside of a square wooden box, and then
they slowly ﬁll your glass with rice wine until it is full to the very brim. At
that point, they do not stop pouring. They continue to pour and the rice wine
overﬂows and it ﬂows down the side of the glass and begins to ﬁll up the
wooden box. They continue to pour into the glass until both the glass and the
wooden box are both full. Only then do they stop. I’ve always liked it. I
suppose it’s supposed to represent an overabundance of hospitality, or
something. But, for me, who ﬁrst witnessed the act on that evening, the
practice has always reminded me of the questions that do not overﬂow from
men’s hearts.
The three men who wanted to know why Caleb was back, and the four
who wanted to know why I was leaving, never gave voice to those thoughts.
Instead we spoke of Caleb’s life in California, and of the trading heroics of
Billy and I; of JB’s newborn child and the Frog’s dastardly overthrowing of
the man and, of course, JB’s future revenge.We didn’t speak, though, of his failing marriage or the cocaine that at that
moment surged through his veins. We didn’t speak of the changes in our
faces, of how both JB and I had grown gaunt. We didn’t speak of the glimmer
that was missing from Caleb’s eyes, or of how that absence reminded me of a
younger, happier me.
On that warm night, in the sparkling lights of the city that reﬂected to us
from the Thames, those things were not ours. We basked in our glories, not
our failures. We left those to sink into the river, unheard.
But still, though, the pain in my heart.
We all knew, then, that Caleb would take me. It was obvious then that
that’s what he would do. Wherever he went—Citi, or Deutsche, or anywhere
—he would take me. That was what he’d come back for. He was there to take
me from the Frog.
But I couldn’t go, not without asking, and so I waited for my time.
Then suddenly there was the opportunity, when JB and Billy were both
deeply embezzled, in their drinks and in one another’s eyes, and I pressed my
face into Caleb’s and I asked him.
“Tell me, what was life in California really like?”
And it was just the two of us for a moment, and he told me, “It was
beautiful, Gary. We had this huge, beautiful house, the front all held up by
huge columns. We had the thing specially made, out in the countryside. And
from the inside it opened up, outwards, into this huge, beautiful garden that
spread for miles out the back, far deep into these huge trees. You don’t get
trees like that over here. And the kids would play together in the garden all
day out into the late evening and Florence would cook dinner for the four of
us and I’d go out there and I’d call them in. It was beautiful, warm all year
round.”
There was a pause, and, for an instant, he faltered. And I met those huge
eyes and that huge smile, and I caught them and held them and I didn’t back
down.
“But there was a problem. The guys who built the house, you know…I’m
not sure they were the best guys. They were friends of my wife’s family, youknow? There were a few little things…With the design…Of that place…I’m
not sure, you know? I think they weren’t great…”
Another pause, and he looked away, and I pressed him for more.
“Like what Caleb? What do you mean?”
“Well, I mean, for example…The thermostat. They put the thermostat too
close to the ﬁre. When you put the ﬁre on, in winter, the thermostat would
trip. And the heating would go oﬀ upstairs, and it would get cold.”
Keep the eyes. Don’t let them evade you.
“We got them to come back. And to move the thermostat. But the
problem, it kept coming back. No matter where we put the thermostat, we
couldn’t get it right.”
Caleb kept talking then, but I wasn’t listening. All I saw then was a vision.
A huge, beautiful house, a huge, beautiful kitchen. Opening out to a beautiful
garden. Two beautiful, blonde-headed boys, full of life, play around as the
golden sun sets over them, casting them into the shadows of huge, alien trees.
The beautiful mother heads into the garden.
“Timothy! Jacob! Dinner’s ready! Come on in!”
And there, adjacent to the huge room of the kitchen, a huge dining table,
and beyond it, a huge living room.
And in the center of that living room, beneath a shimmering chandelier, a
huge luxury armchair, and in it a huge, wealthy, large-headed man.
And his eyes ﬁx on something small, there, on the wall. Above the
ﬁreplace, up, to the left.
He watches and he watches and he watches, like a wolf. Then one fat
ﬁnger twitches, on the arm of the chair.
The thermostat.
And I knew then why Caleb came back to the trading ﬂoor.
He came because he had to be here.
“I want to tell you something.”
The sharpness of my sudden exclamation alerted JB and Billy, and brought
them back into our space.
“Do you remember when I told you that I left my grammar school because
I thought it would give me a better chance to get into LSE?”The three men nodded.
“It was a lie, it never happened. I left because I got expelled. I got expelled
for selling drugs.”
Slowly, slowly, JB and Caleb started to smile. And their faces lit up, with a
ﬁre.
But Billy wasn’t smiling, he was looking deep into me, and when I looked
into his eyes I could see he was scared.
9
WHEN I WAS A LITTLE kid, I mean really little, I had a friend on the street. His
name was Jamie Silverman.
Jamie was the best at everything—football, throwing, climbing, cycling,
spitting. He could almost piss over the street’s far wall into the recycling
center. He was good at school stuﬀ too, always getting the best grades.
Everyone loved him, and because my older brother was kind of weird and he
used to get picked on, and I was too small and scrawny and young to protect
him, Jamie used to protect the both of us. I looked up to him a lot, growing
up.
As we got older, whenever new stuﬀ came in—a new sport or a new
competition, a new school subject or a new trend, like rollerskating—Jamie
always had to be the best at it, and, eﬀortlessly, he always was. Nothing was
too hard for him. He’d get into the regional teams for school stuﬀ and sports
stuﬀ, especially throwing, and he never even seemed to try hard.
When girls became a thing, he was the best at girls, when drugs became a
thing, he was the best at drugs.
He never left me out either, always brought me along, always taught me to
do what he did.
When I got expelled from school, at sixteen, for drugs, I stopped doing
them, forever. Jamie didn’t. He just did more, and more and more and more.
That kid was really good at drugs. Really was.
Came a point I couldn’t see him no more. He was losing weight more by
the day. Every time I saw him he was taller and skinnier than the last time,smoking up in some trainyard, on somebody’s roof.
Time come I just thought, I ain’t gonna see that kid no more. I loved him
of course, but I just didn’t like to see him. Every time I did, hurt my heart.
Years later, kid got emphysema, which is when your lungs break down
from smoking too much, and I went to see him in the hospital and I brought
him grapes and fucking ﬂowers and the guy looked like a skeleton and had
tubes in his nose.
Still wanted to laugh about the old times though. Still does, every time I
see him. As if nothing ain’t changed.
All I could think when I saw him there, skinny as fuck in the hospital, all
tubes and all yellow, was that he used to be the best thrower in the whole
fucking borough.
Fucking waste.
10
THE FROG SAT ME DOWN in the room.
“The Slug says you can’t have the sabbatical.”
Don’t reply. Just nod.
“He said the last time he gave someone a sabbatical they never came back.
He doesn’t want that to happen with you.”
Nod again.
“But there’s another option. Caleb’s coming back. He’s going to be the
Head of STIRT in Tokyo. He wants to have you over there.”
One more nod.
“Well, what do you think?”
Sigh deeply. Think for a little.
“To be honest, Frog, I don’t think it’s a good idea. I’m fucked. I can’t do it
anymore.”
Now it was the Frog’s turn to sigh. He looked down and pretended to think
for himself, and while he was doing it he was cracking his knuckles. Then,
after a while, he looked back up at me, with a grimace bigger than his ugly
face.
“You don’t understand, Gary. You have to go.”
OK.
No problem.
So it goes.
—I took my parents out to a fancy Japanese restaurant in the City to let them
know I’d be moving to Japan.
They both dressed as if they were going to church and shuﬄed around
endlessly in the stool-like high chairs.
“Are you going to be OK out there?”
That was my mum.
“Of course I will. I’m always OK.”
They couldn’t seem to destarch themselves the whole time, and I guessed it
was because they didn’t know how to use chopsticks.
“It’s all right,” I told them, “you’re allowed to eat sushi with your hands.”
I picked one up and I popped it into my mouth to show them that it was
allowed. But my dad was doing something weird with the soy sauce bottle so
he didn’t catch it.
I called the waiter over and asked for two forks. But it didn’t seem to help.
—
It was only a couple weeks before it was my time to leave, and the plan was to
tell Wizard that we needed to break up.
It was deep in the blue of the night when I chose to speak about it, and we
were both in bed.
“Hey…You know I’m going to Japan, right?”
“Yeah, of course, I know you’re going.”
She was lying in bed and I was sitting up over her. And all the curtains
were open and the room was totally ﬂooded with blue. Her words hung in the
air and it was like I could see them and I was trying to catch them. And I
remembered that there was something that I was supposed to be saying,
something that I was supposed to be doing, but I couldn’t for the life of me
remember what on earth it could possibly have been, and she stepped in and
she ﬁlled up the space.
“You know I’m going to go as well, don’t you? You know that I’ll go to
Japan?”And I heard that from another room, as if from a dream, and it awoke me,
and I looked down at her and what I thought was,
“You know I don’t deserve you. You should go ﬁnd somebody else.”
But what I said was,
“I think that…I need…you to come.”
And I don’t know why I said that, because it hadn’t been what I had
planned. I guess I said it because it was true.
—
My last day ever on the Citibank London trading ﬂoor was in late September,
2012. Pack your bag. Pat a few backs. It was JB that went down the hoot and
shouted out, “Gary Stevenson is leaving the building!” as I walked oﬀ the
desk.
I knew they were all standing up and cheering and clapping as I walked out
the room. I could hear them, and I could see them all in my peripheral vision,
down every aisle, both sides. White shirt, white shirt, pink shirt, blue.
But I didn’t turn and look, I just walked out the door.
