1
TOKYO IS A WONDERFUL PLACE to be depressed. Especially in the autumn.
The banks congregate in an area of the city that is called “Marunouchi,”
which means “inside the circle,” and that name derives from the fact that the
area, at some point, fell within the conﬁnes of the outer moat of the
Emperor’s palace, although where that moat is now, I have no idea. I was
never able to ﬁnd it.
For a long time, it was illegal to build high buildings in Marunouchi,
because they would be able to overlook the palace, and, I don’t know,
someone could try to shoot the Emperor with a crossbow or something. But
eventually, in the 1980s, the land value of the area became so high that
exceptions were made, and, by the time I arrived there, the whole area was
ﬁfty ﬂoors high. Tradition and the Emperor are important, of course, but
then, so is money, I guess.
If I left the Citi oﬃce building, the dark gray and metal Shin-Marubiru,
and walked west, I could enter the Outer Garden of the palace itself,
“Koukyogaien.” This garden is nothing but an enormous and perfectly
manicured ﬁeld, split into three sections by two busy roads, and planted with
nothing but a million unique but identical trees, each perfectly spaced at
intervals of seven or eight meters.
Each tree is small, not too much taller than the height of a man, and
intricate, of a type which I have never seen in England. When I ﬁrst walked in
the garden, I assumed they were bonsai trees, but I later learned that bonsai is
actually a kind of Japanese artform of tiny-tree growing, and not in fact atype of tree at all, so I suppose they must be some other kind of Japanese
tree.
If you walk through the gardens, for ten minutes or so, past the million
unique, identical trees, you can reach an old, stone bridge, which crosses the
inner moat and leads to the inner part of the Imperial Palace complex. There
is a gate there, that is always closed, and you cannot go in.
I would often go there, and I would sit down, on a little step on the ground
in the gravel, and I’d turn around and I’d watch Marunouchi. From there, you
get a little bit of perspective. You can see the huge block of skyscrapers
surging up into the blue sky of Tokyo, and, in the foreground, the green ﬁeld
and trees of the Koukyogaien.
Marunouchi is not like Canary Wharf. Canary Wharf doesn’t have so
many skyscrapers, and I saw them rise one at a time. To me, they exist as
individuals, especially those central three that I watched go up as a child—the
Citibank Tower, the HSBC Tower, and that middle one, the pyramid one. In
Marunouchi there are so many skyscrapers that the whole place is more
skyscraper than not skyscraper. There must have been at least thirty, or forty,
or ﬁfty, all forty stories or more, and the whole place rises as one, as a block.
Even though the weather in Tokyo varies hugely from summer to winter, the
sky in my memory is always warm, and always blue. Perhaps that is because
that’s how it was when I ﬁrst arrived, at the end of September in 2012.
When I sat there, on that small step outside the Emperor’s Palace, and
watched Marunouchi, I would always think the same thing.
“My God,” I would think, “there are so many windows.”
So many skyscrapers, with so many ﬂoors, and with so many windows.
And behind each of those windows, rows and rows of men and women
working day after day on rows and rows of computers, from the early
morning deep into the night.
How on earth have they not solved the world’s problems?
Then I would get up, and I would dust the white gravel dirt from the seat
of my trousers, and I’d walk back to my oﬃce, and then, when I got to the
oﬃce, I would bet on the end of the world.2
AT THE TIME I MOVED to Tokyo, I really shouldn’t have been moving anywhere.
The weight had been dropping oﬀ me for some months by then, and by that
point I was down to under 60 kilograms, which is about nine and a half stone.
Even for me, that’s not a lot.
I’m not sure I knew I had a problem. There was a point where it had
occurred to me that it was probably not normal to be pathologically unable to
buy sofas, or, in fact, any item of household furniture. But I allowed that
moment to pass, as I had done with so many doubting moments. If I hadn’t
have done that, maybe things wouldn’t have gotten so much worse, so quickly.
But there were other pressing issues at hand, like interest rates.
The pain in my heart was being medicated by these pills called “PPIs,”
which stop the acid in your stomach from being acidic, which is what it’s
supposed to be. The ﬁrst time I went on them, about a year previously, they
were pretty eﬀective, calmed the pain right down. By the time I moved to
Japan I was on my third course, and they weren’t working quite as well
anymore. I had asked the doctor at the time, “Is that it then? I just take these
pills for the rest of my life?”
He had smiled as he handed me the prescription and said, “Probably.”
Through it all, though, I had the trading. The trading, the trading, the
trading. The only true friend I had left. Objective, impassive, secure.
The thing about trading is, it’s always there. The markets, you know, they
don’t stop.Well, they do stop, I guess, on the weekends, but even then, there’s the
economy.
The economy had become an obsession, it spread like an oil spill through
the acid of my heart.
It was true that I didn’t give a shit about the oﬃce anymore. But the
economy? That love never died.
When I ﬁrst had my realization that the economy was broken, that it would
get worse and worse, year after year, I didn’t think about it that much. I
mean, I did think about it, of course I did. But I never asked myself what did
it mean.
It was my job, you know? You look at the economy and you say—OK,
what is it gonna be this year? Is the economy strong, or is it weak? What
about next year? That’s simplifying it, just a little bit, but when it comes down
to it, that’s pretty much what interest rates trading is. That was my job.
Say your job was measuring the depth of swimming pools. You wouldn’t
go around measuring the swimming pools and then asking yourself, “What
does this mean?,” would you? Say it was your job to ﬁx sofas. You don’t ask
your friends, “What does this sofa mean?”
At the time that I realized that the economy would get worse forever, I was
conﬁdent. I was conﬁdent enough to bet big on it. I could see the mechanism
by which it would happen, and I could see exactly why most trained
economists would miss it. I could see that clearly. I can still see it now. But I
never asked myself, “What does it mean?”
I just put the trade on. I just did my job.
But as that trade started to make me the most proﬁtable trader in the
whole of Citi Global Foreign Exchange, there was a growing, dawning
realization that this was not just a theory. This was a thing that was real.
And then I got paid a ton of money for doing that, and then I invested that
money. There was a point, when I was doing the investing, that I asked
myself, “What am I investing this money for? Will I ever spend it? Probably
not.”
And I thought then, “Well, in that case, I’m investing it for my kids.”And then, just very ﬂeetingly, “But then, what if I’m right? What kind of
world will my kids live in?”
But I squashed that thought, and I moved on very quickly, back to the
investments, because investments and numbers are things that I like. Numbers
are a place where I’m safe.
There were moments though. Little, brief moments. Where the thick
canopy of trees opened up above me, and I caught just a glimpse of a dark,
starry sky. And in those moments, I did dream of quitting. I think that’s what
had happened that day in the oﬃce with the Frog. I had had one searing
moment of lucidity, and, in that moment, I saw the sky, and I realized that it
wasn’t really right for a millionaire twenty-ﬁve-year-old to be working with
holes in his shoes, to be living in a house with no ﬂoors. To be sleeping in the
evenings on a broken red sofa and to wake up cold, in the middle of the night,
dreaming of numbers. To have such shooting pains in his heart and at times
to be unable to eat. That’s probably why, in that moment, I had said that I
wanted to quit.
But the problem with quitting was—I couldn’t. You see, I was handcuﬀed
right in. When Citibank paid me that huge bonus, the bonus that I can’t
remember, at the beginning of 2012, they took care to tie me tight to my
screens. Some of the bonus was to be paid up front, which was the money I
was investing. The rest was to be paid with a signiﬁcant delay. A quarter in
2013, a quarter in 2014, a quarter in 2015, a quarter in 2016. So you see, at
that point, I could not really leave. The bank owed me over a million pounds.
If I quit, I’d lose it all.
So that is probably why, as I sat there that day in that oﬃce, with my
broken shoes and my broken stomach and the acid shooting through my heart;
feeling low, on the ground, like a rat, when the Frog told me that I had to
move to Tokyo, I said yes. Even though I knew I didn’t have the energy to do
it. I had nothing. No strength to say no with. I was shackled.
But rats have teeth too, you know, and so do I. In my spare time I did my
research.
Because if traders are shackled in, and can’t leave, then how did Caleb
leave back in 2009? How had Caleb been able to build it? His wonderfulhouse in the wonderful trees?
I poked around, I asked a few people. OK, I admit, I just went and asked
Bill.
Bill told me there was a clause in the contract, a way to get out and keep
all your cash. You had to leave and go to work for charity. Not many people
knew about it, but Caleb did, and somehow he’d triggered that clause. He’d
never gone to work for charity, everyone knew it, but for some reason the
Slug let him go anyway. Nobody knew exactly why. Nobody was quite sure.
Maybe Caleb had shit on the Slug.
This was the slender escape rope I carried, on that long ﬂight, alone, to
Tokyo. If Caleb had gone, with his money, then surely I could go as well. Not
only that, but I was going to work for Caleb. If it all went terribly, if it all
went tits up, I’d wait for the next bonus and then I’d leave and I’d go work for
charity. Caleb would understand that, surely, wouldn’t he?
Of course he would. Caleb would understand.
—
And I was, indeed, alone on that ﬂight over to Tokyo. Wizard was not there
with me. Wizard would move to Japan, like she promised she would, but she
didn’t go when I did. She went on her own ticket, and she arranged her own
job, not in Tokyo, for some reason, and that job didn’t start till January 2013.
So what I did take with me was almost nothing. The bank gave me eight
cubic meters of air freight in which I was supposed to bring, I don’t know, my
favorite furniture? But I barely had anything that I couldn’t ﬁt in a backpack,
so I asked them to just send my bike. My bike took two weeks to arrive
though, so when I got there, it was just me, my backpack, and the markets.
At that time in my life, and still now, when I looked at markets I no longer
saw a set of numbers. What I saw was a set of predictions for the world, the
same way you might look at the weather forecast and understand that it’s
telling you what will happen. The interest rate predictions were a neat map of
exactly when and how quickly each economy would recover, and they were
moving around every day. If the rates move down, that could mean thateconomic prospects have weakened, or it could mean that the central bank
has come out and said they’re not going to hike rates. Which is it? If you look
at the stock market, you can probably see—the ﬁrst reason will probably push
stocks down, the second, probably push them up.
Real traders don’t watch the news, they watch the markets. Fuck The
Economist, fuck the Financial Times, fuck The Wall Street Journal. The only
thing you need is the markets. They’ll tell you something that is real.
But it’s wrong though. It’s real. But it’s wrong. And I was working out
exactly why. At that point, I’d only been right on the economy for a year and a
half. I needed to watch it more, to challenge my theories. I needed
conﬁrmation. I needed to watch the economy die.
So that was my plan. Even though I had nothing left, just a half-empty
backpack, I knew that, always, always, I could trade, and I knew I’d make
money. I wanted to watch my predictions be right again, for another year. I
wanted God to reveal his truth.
That’s all I wanted. Nothing else, just the markets.
3
PINK SHIRTS ARE NOT POPULAR in Tokyo, at least they weren’t when I was there.
Blue shirts neither. It is very much a white shirt, white shirt culture. And the
white shirts, neatly bordered by black trousers and slim, black suit jackets,
cascade out of the exits of the underground stations at 8 a.m. and 9 a.m. like
waterfalls ﬂowing upward, into the real world, and the individual men and
women inside of that ﬂow are carp ﬁghting upstream, opening umbrellas,
checking their phones, carrying neat, prim, rectangular suitcases, mopping
their brows with small white handkerchiefs.
I was among them.
Citibank had taken care of everything. A crisp, cream and white
apartment had been allocated to me on the thirtieth ﬂoor of the Prudential
Building, which is a skyscraper in which people should not live, but in which
insurance should be sold, the top corner of which has been delineated for
human habitation. In that top corner, brave adventurers such as I go to sleep
and wake up every night high, high up, in the sky, and we see Mount Fuji,
each day, in the morning, but we don’t breathe the high air of Tokyo, because
the windows are designed to stay closed.
The Prudential Building locks directly into the vast, sprawling, and
unerringly eﬃcient Tokyo subway system at Akasaka Mitsuke station, which
itself lies in the heart of Akasaka, an upmarket commercial district in the
center of Tokyo, all old-fashioned sushi shops and narrow paved alleys and
soaring rents.The connection to the subway was, indeed, so direct, that I could take an
elevator from the hallway outside my bedroom all the way down into the
station, from where I could take the Marunouchi line in just eight minutes to
Tokyo Station, from which I could take another elevator directly into my
oﬃce. All the way from my bed to the trading ﬂoor, without ever once seeing
the sky. Convenient, don’t you think? Or, as the Japanese would say, “/g0/g0/g0/g0
MgN?”
—
The Tokyo trading ﬂoor, on the twenty-fourth ﬂoor of the Shin-Maru-Biru,
meaning “New Marunouchi Building,” was not small. But to me, it was small.
If you stood at the entrance door with your back held up straight and against
it, and the back of your head touching it, you could see the back of the room,
and both its right and its left side, all at the same time. For me, that meant
that it was small.
In reality, that sense of smallness probably came not from a lack of actual
size, but from its lowness of ceilings, and its quietness. The altitude of the
room also created a vastness of great distance through the windows, on the
two sides that did not face the rest of the Marunouchi skyscrapers. I’m not
sure why, but from the very ﬁrst day I spent in the oﬃce, I got the sense that
the sky in Tokyo was unusually high.
Unusually high, and unusually quiet. With those impressions I was
overwhelmed. You could not, of course, have really heard a pin drop, if for
no other reason than that the ﬂoor was expensively carpeted. But I always got
the sense that you could.
On the trading ﬂoor itself, there were a few pink shirts, and this provided a
little comfort, a little familiarity. The reason for this was not that the traders
of Japan were atypically adventurous in their fashion sense, it was because the
trading ﬂoor had a lot of gaijin. Gaijin means foreigner. It kind of means
white person and it kind of means American. Usually it’s not derogative.
Sometimes it is.About a third of the trading ﬂoor were gaijin, and about two thirds of
those were Americans. The rest were Europeans who’d gotten lost at some
point. People like me. The only people I knew on the whole trading ﬂoor
were Caleb and, vaguely, two Japanese traders called Hisa Watanabe and Joey
Kanazawa, who I’d met on my world tour nearly two years previously.
The STIRT desk was at the very back of the trading ﬂoor, by the far
window, which meant that, if I wanted, I could wander over to that window
and peek over at the palace. I don’t own a crossbow, so it’s not a big deal. To
call it a desk was something of a misnomer, because there were only three
traders there, including myself, and only one of us ever did any trading.
At that time, Citi STIRT in Asia was split between Tokyo and Sydney.
Every single currency was traded out of Sydney, with the single exception of
the Japanese yen, which was traded from Japan. This meant that there was
only need for one single trader in Tokyo, the Japanese yen trader, and yet,
there we were, three of us, in a little line: Hisa Watanabe, Arthur Kapowski,
and, stuﬀed between the two of them, me.
Hisa Watanabe had been the yen trader for as long as anyone could
remember. He was a small, mousy man, who had inexplicably chosen to
speak his English with the accent of a 1920s New York gangster, and he was
a very, very bad trader. No, that’s unfair. He wasn’t a trader at all. He was a
shopkeeper, an accountant, a paper-shuﬄy sort of a man.
Hisa should have been ﬁred when his job was given to me. He wasn’t. He
was promoted sideways in the most literal way possible: his chair was given to
me, and he was moved into the chair to the right of it and declared to be “my
manager.” The manager of literally only one person: me. Hisa came to meet
me at the airport with his wife and crying baby when I landed in Tokyo. I
should probably have recognized what that meant when it happened—I didn’t.
That guy would back-seat drive my trading unerringly and incessantly, stuck
right up my fucking arsehole like a hemorrhoid for the next fucking six
months of my life.
To my left, was Arthur Kapowski. Arthur was Australian and his dad was
some mining magnate or celebrity plastic surgeon or newspaper tycoon or
something. I don’t know exactly what, something anonymously rich andinﬂuential, and it looked as if he had raised his son to be the next clean-cut
leader of whatever the fuck the Australian equivalent of the Republican Party
is. He had the air of the world’s tallest and most prestigious ﬁfteen-year-old,
but I suppose he must have been at least twenty-ﬁve. Think Jared Kushner
with a much better personal trainer. Arthur was the most right-wing person I
have ever known personally. Arthur was great. He was a real hoot.
There was absolutely no reason for Arthur to be in Tokyo other than the
fact that Rupert Hobhouse (yes, him, Clapham’s ﬁnest, the wolfman) was still
head of STIRT in all Asia, and he liked to move people around like pieces on
a chessboard. Arthur was possibly put there in an attempt to help me settle in,
or he may have been put there so Rupert could show oﬀ to Caleb that he had
somehow hired a man who was clearly destined to be the future leader of the
free world to be his junior trader on STIRT. Arthur himself seemed delighted
to be there. He said it was closer to his girlfriend. His girlfriend lived in New
York.
So there we were, the three STIRT “traders”—one trader, his boss, and his
junior. Three fucking cooks with not much fucking broth.
As if three men for one job was not already overkill, Rupert, who was
somehow also “my boss” despite being 5,000 miles away, had insisted on a
live video screen between his and my desk. This meant that one of my
precious screens was now permanently devoted to a rolling livestream of
“Rupert’s daily moments,” including such unmissable highlights as “Rupert
eats noodles too quickly,” “Rupert perfects the art of the full windsor necktie”
and “Rupert suddenly unmutes his screen to shout at you ‘What’s Eurozone
CPI?’ like some fucking horrible recurring dream from childhood which has
inexplicably come back to haunt you as an adult.”
To the left of us was the rest of the Foreign Exchange department. Since
the overall Tokyo FX team was much smaller, we were not big enough to split
into separate desks, and so we shared our desk with, ﬁrstly, a pair of
thoroughly unobjectionable middle-aged Japanese salesmen who, as my
Japanese got better, I would gradually come to realize spent their entire day
discussing ﬁrstly what they would eat for lunch, and then, after they had eaten
said lunch, a thorough assessment of how the lunch had been. Past them werea pair of Japanese currency traders, which included the semi-legendary and
violently irrepressible Joey Kanazawa, and to their left, on the very end of the
desk, the broad and robust Caleb Zucman, who had been made head of the
whole foreign-exchange-and-interest-rates department and who, in propping
up the desk like the world’s largest bookend, brought the number of bosses in
my immediate vicinity up to a round total of three. I would be well looked
after, no doubt.
4
THERE’S A CONCEPT IN JAPANESE, it’s called O-mo-te-na-shi. For some reason,
Japanese people say it like that, one syllable at a time, and they do this funny
thing with their hands when they say it. It means, I am told, “the spirit of
Japanese hospitality.” I think it’s something to do with green tea.
Joey Kanazawa showed me some Japanese hospitality, but I think that,
maybe, it wasn’t O-mo-te-na-shi. I think it was something diﬀerent.
Joey Kanazawa was a small man with intense eyes and an economy of
movement. He was a “spot trader,” which means he was a pure trader of
currencies. It is the simplest, least complicated kind of trader that you can
possibly be, and they have a reputation for boorishness and stupidity. All
traders call FX traders monkeys, and FX traders call spot traders monkeys.
So they are the monkeys of the monkeys. But Joey Kanazawa was not like
that. He was cool, he was slick, he was quiet.
Joey said almost nothing to me, or, indeed, to anyone on my ﬁrst day on
the trading ﬂoor. Then, at the end of the day, at precisely six thirty, in one
sparing, ﬂuid, precise movement, he stood up, slid his chair in, took three
steps to his right, and shouted something in Japanese.
The three Japanese men around me—Hisa Watanabe, and the two lunch
connoisseurs—responded with a loud, militaristic grunt that slid into a long
hiss. They stood up and tucked in their own chairs.
The combined movement of the four men was balletic in its simultaneity.
Shocked and impressed, I had turned to face Joey, and was staring the man in
the face.Joey extended his right arm, with perfect straightness, toward me. With his
palm up, and his thumb, index and middle ﬁngers outstretched, it was clear:
the pointing of a gun. He held my gaze for just a moment in which his eyes
blazed with roaring intensity. He ripped the gun into the air.
The gesture was clear and decisive and broke through the language that we
did not share. I groped under my desk for my little string backpack, and I
followed him into the night.
—
It is already dark by that time, in Tokyo at the end of September, and the last
traces of blue were dying from the air.
The sky becomes black and the streets become neon. The stars fallen
down to the ground.
Knowing what I know now, I can see that we must have been walking
through the wide streets of Ginza, an area just to the east of Marunouchi, and
one of the grandest and most illustrious shopping streets in the whole of
Tokyo and, in fact, the world.
But I did not know then what I know now, and all I saw was a grand, wide
street, pavements ﬂecked with perfect trees and ﬂanked by tall buildings.
Hanging neon signs that I could not read, innumerable, ﬂowing down in
towering cascades from the sides of the buildings. Four Japanese men
walking in two pairs, all in white shirts and black jackets. Behind them,
looking around, looking upward, broken white trainers, thin black Topman
peacoat—me.
—
What was I looking for that ﬁrst, hot Tokyo evening, following those four
white-shirted men into the night? Maybe I was looking for some omotenashi.
The spirit of Japanese hospitality. Isn’t that what every silly little white boy is
looking for, when he packs it all in and moves to Japan? To be held in the
arms of a new, diﬀerent place; to be embraced by the warmth of its air.A sharp right into a tiny alley that had no right to be there, barely wide
enough to walk two abreast. Four men at a hot red counter slurping noodles in
perfect unison, one boy dropping his on the ﬂoor. I asked Hisa how to say
“black pepper” in Japanese. He said it was “burakku peppaa.” A short walk, a
second tiny alley. Five men bundled into a lift. No one had thought to tell me
where we’d be going. It was from then that it went downhill.
What can I tell you about hostess bars and about soaplands and about
hostess karaoke? Probably far more than either of us would like to know.
Just, women. So many women. Did I make it clear I wasn’t warned?
There were older women and there were younger women. Girls, really.
There were women about Wizard’s age. There were huge rooms with
ornamentation and smaller, private rooms as well. Allocation. So much
allocation. Always one allocated to me.
Cigarettes were lighted and mixed drinks were poured, and jokes were
laughed at behind hands. I’m sorry, I don’t speak Japanese. A giggle, a touch
on my thigh.
What do you do, in that situation? I probably should have gone home. I
didn’t though. Why didn’t I?
I held on and I tried to drink slowly, but the glasses were always full and it
was diﬃcult to measure my drinks. The connoisseurs had their ties round
their heads now. My furendo my furendo. She izu. Adaruto mubii staa.
It is all blurring now and we are tumbling into taxis and before long on to
the next place. Hisa is singing “Wonderwall,” and Joey Kanazawa is leaping
from his seat, like an animal, and he rips the man’s shirt from his chest. The
girl next to me is pushing her shoulder into my shoulder. She looks about
twenty. She’s very pretty. I’m sorry, I don’t speak Japanese.
I try to move away from her and she looks nervously to the small porthole
in the door and so I look too and there are the eyes of a man watching us, and
within minutes the door is opened and my girl leaves and another is sent in,
for me.
“Listen, you seem really, really lovely and everything, and I’m really sorry
I don’t speak Japanese but, I just wanted to tell you that really I’m OK, I don’tneed anyone, so…Yeah I don’t know how this works, really, but, like, you can
just do what you want or if you want you can go home.”
But she can’t hear because the music is too loud and because the
connoisseurs are screaming some kind of traditional Japanese ballad into the
microphone, so I lean in and I say the same thing right into her ear and then I
look at her and she smiles and puts her hand on my shoulder and cocks her
head, a little, to the side. They replaced her another four times.
My soul died a little, on that carousel, if there was anything left still, to
die. Eventually a girl found her way to me who could actually speak a little
English. She should deﬁnitely have been higher up the list.
“Please, please, please, don’t let them replace you.”
“Pureezu, pureezu pureezu. Be…More…Happy.”
The thought came to me that I’d never tried that. I wondered if it was too
late.
5
“SO. HOW DID YOU MAKE so much money then?”
Arthur wasn’t like other traders that I’d worked with, and that was typiﬁed
in his asking of this question. For nearly two years, by that point, I had been
one of Citi’s top traders, and no one had asked me that once.
“Easy. I just bet that interest rates would stay zero forever.”
“HA!”
Arthur guﬀawed extremely loudly. One single, extremely pointed,
Australian private school guﬀaw.
“Interest rates can’t stay zero forever.”
Arthur asked a lot of dumb questions, and made a lot of bold statements. I
liked that. The reason that he did this is because he had never studied
economics. He studied music. He was a concert pianist or some shit. The best
job a concert pianist can get nowadays is trader for Citibank. It pays very
well.
Economics nowadays is a subject in which students never really quite
understand what they are being taught, because the people teaching them,
who are of course former economics students, never quite understood it
themselves. Occasionally, experiencing a rare moment of lucidity, a student
will be simultaneously intelligent enough to realize their own lack of
understanding, and brave enough to ask a professor about it. This will incite a
brief twinge of psychological torment in the professor, who will have spent
many years trying to suppress his own knowledge that he does not really
understand his subject, and will also remind him of the bitter fact that hisfather has never been proud of him. In order to shut these escaped feelings
back up in their safely locked vault of repression, the professor will either
shame or bore his interlocutor into submission (which is what intellectually
insecure people usually do when questioned). By this process, economists
learn to never ask the stupid questions, which are, of course, almost always
the most important questions to ask.
Arthur didn’t have that, and he was also very good at piano. How lucky.
What a fortunate boy.
“Of course interest rates can stay zero forever. Why the fuck can’t they?”
“Well…” And with this, Arthur pondered a little bit. I liked the boy, you
could witness him think.
“Well, because it’s only temporary. It’s the sovereign debt crisis. The
economy’s going to recover. And then interest rates will come back.
“Clever boy, where did you read that? The economy’s going to hell.”
“HA!”
This boy loved to guﬀaw, and he did it so loudly. He did everything loudly
actually. The Tokyo trading ﬂoor was the quietest trading ﬂoor I have ever
been on by about a million miles, and when Arthur spoke everybody could
hear him. Arthur didn’t care though. Why the fuck should he care? He’s the
next leader of the free world.
“What do you mean the economy’s going to hell?”
“What the fuck do you think I mean? It never gets better. It’s not
temporary, it’s terminal. It goes down from here. Year after year.”
“What goes down? Interest rates? The stock market?”
“Fucking stock market, come on Arthur, you’re smarter than that, have
you been asleep for ﬁve fucking years? Shit economy is great for the stock
market. Stock market goes to the moon.”
That was a good point that I’d made. It was becoming increasingly
obvious. Arthur chewed on it a bit.
“But why’s the economy fucked though? Nobody’s saying that. Why is it
fucked?”
“Fucking hell Arthur. If you just believe what everybody else believes
you’ll never make a pound in your life. You can’t beat the market by being themarket. You make money when people are wrong.”
Arthur looked genuinely baﬄed, and I wondered if he shouldn’t maybe be
in a concert hall somewhere instead of sitting here with me.
“OK, go on then. I’ll fucking tell you. It’s inequality. That’s the only thing
that matters. Trade on that you’ll be a millionaire.”
Arthur guﬀawed for one ﬁnal time, before quickly realizing I was serious.
“Inequality!?”
“Yes Arthur, yes, inequality. The rich get the assets, the poor get the debt,
and then the poor have to pay their whole salary to the rich every year just to
live in a house. The rich use that money to buy the rest of the assets from the
middle class and then the problem gets worse every year. The middle class
disappears, spending power disappears permanently from the economy, the
rich becoming much fucking richer and the poor, well, I guess they just die.”
That hung in the air for a second and I could see the cogs move in his
brain.
“So…What about interest rates?”
“Interest rates stay at zero.”
“Hmm…Do you think we should buy green Eurodollars then?”
Fucking Arthur. Smarter than he looked.
The conversation had attracted the attention of Rupert who was, as always,
able to look at the pair of us on his video screen. He unmuted the screen and
shouted my name, a habit of which he was unfortunately fond.
“Gary! Glad to see you’re getting on with Arthur! What are you talking
about?”
At that stage of my life, I was ﬁnding it increasingly diﬃcult to separate
my contempt for Rupert from my face. I’m sure Rupert never noticed though.
He probably thought all faces just looked like that. I was getting a weird
twitch in my eye and my lip so I didn’t answer and so Arthur ﬁlled the gap
and shouted,
“Economics!”
“Ahh…economics! I love economics! I knew Gary would turn out to be a
great economist. That’s why I hired him to the bank! Tell me Gary…W ho do
you think is the best economist at Citibank?”At that point in time, Rupert was one of about seven diﬀerent people who
were claiming that they’d hired me to the bank, but I supposed Rupert’s claim
was stronger than most. He did take me to Vegas, after all. I’d managed to get
my eye under control so I spat out the word, “Bill.”
Rupert was shocked.
“Bill is not an economist!” He thought I was joking.
“OK. If it’s not Bill, it’s me.”
Rupert and Arthur both loved that, and they laughed at it gleefully. There
was a little inlay of our own camera display in the corner of the screen
showing Rupert, so I could see Arthur’s beautiful pearly smile. Rupert had
had his own teeth done since moving to Australia. They were perfect, like
piano keys.
Suddenly, Caleb’s face appeared behind mine in the frame of the screen
and I felt his heavy hand on my shoulder.
“Rupert! How is it going? What are you guys so happy about?”
“Caleb! How are you? I was just talking with Gary. He says he’s the best
economist in the bank!”
Caleb found that as funny as everyone else, and they all laughed with their
teeth and their cheeks.
“Well, it’s true though, he is a good economist. I always knew he would be,
even back in the Trading Game. That’s why I hired him to the bank.” Caleb
paused, then, to recalibrate himself physically, so as to continue with a little
more gravity.
“You know, I’ll always remember giving Gary his ﬁrst bonus. I knew
whatever I gave him would be a huge amount of money to him, but I wanted
him to feel appreciated. I’ll never forget the way his face looked when we
gave him that £50,000.”
The three men smiled warmly, and they all gazed at me, while I just
looked into the screens. It hadn’t been £50,000, it had been £13,000, and I
wondered why Caleb would lie so brazenly to a man who knew it was a lie.
Three huge smiles, each one so perfect. I wasn’t smiling, I looked like a rat.
—Around about that time, global interest rates collapsed for me one ﬁnal time,
making me a fair bit of money and winning me Arthur’s undying loyalty. It
was probably the worst thing that could have happened to me.
You see, once interest rate predictions fall to zero, then everyone’s not
wrong anymore. Everyone’s right. Finally, for the ﬁrst time in nearly two
years since putting on the position, everyone was agreeing with me. The
economy was fucked forever. There would be no recovery. There’s nothing
worse than being right and everyone agreeing with you. There’s no way to
make any cash.
Just a few months earlier, I had been one of the biggest traders in the
whole world. I had been trading hundreds of billions, every day, in a market
that was ﬂying around. That was over now. I was the yen trader. For an
American bank. Not a Japanese bank. The Japanese interest rates never
fucking moved and the market was deader than dead. Even when I did have
prices to make Hisa overruled them and I couldn’t be fucked to ﬁght back.
So that was it. No customers to play the trading game with. No economy
to bet on the death of. Just me, and Arthur, and Hisa Watanabe, and two men
talking about lunch.
No trades. For the ﬁrst time in a long time for me, no trades. I looked
down at my hands, on the mouse and the keyboard, and I realized how empty
they’d become.
I looked round to the right of me. There was Hisa Watanabe. He was
slurping noodles out of a little cardboard bowl with chopsticks and it sounded
disgusting. I don’t wanna hate too much on Hisa Watanabe. I know why he
did what he did. Backseat driving me and overriding all of my trades. It
wasn’t good for him, me being there, doing his job, and making more money
than he had ever made, without even working. Man had a wife who had
married him for his trader salary and he damn sure needed to keep that
salary. God knows he weren’t the ﬁrst trader to meet that predicament. Fuck
him but good luck to the guy.
I looked to my left. Arthur Kapowski. Kid was so happy about all the
money we had made betting on the end of the world. I wondered if it hadever made me happy the way it was making him happy. God knows the
people suﬀering looked like my parents and didn’t look like his parents.
I looked into my top left screen. Rupert Hobhouse. By some blessed
coincidence the guy was also slurping noodles from a little cardboard bowl,
and I thanked fuck that his screen was on mute. For the ﬁrst time in my life I
realized that I hated him. Did I hate him, or did I despise him? I don’t
fucking know, what’s the fucking diﬀerence? I wondered if he knew that I
hated him and I wondered why I hated him. God knows the guy had done a
lot for me, in my career. The more he did for me the more I hated him. So it
goes, I guess.
Left again, past Arthur, to the connoisseurs. They were talking about the
tempura on rice that they had had for lunch and saying that it had been
delicious. I knew that they were right, because they’d bought me some too.
No, it wasn’t their fault, no one could hate them.
Past them, to Joey Kanazawa. He was taut, with his eyes on his screens. I
couldn’t blame Joey Kanazawa. He’d tried his best to bring me in.
And there he was, on the end, Caleb Zucman. The ﬁrst trader I had ever
seen. How could he ever have thought I would ﬁt in here? No markets, no
customers, no real traders around me. No battles, no victories to win. And for
the ﬁrst time ever a thought ﬂickered into my mind: maybe he hadn’t been the
ﬁrst trader I’d seen. Maybe he’d never been a trader at all.
I turned back to my screens and saw that I had pulled my phone out of my
pocket and had been ﬂicking through it. No one in there mate. Ex-family, ex-
friends and ex-girlfriends, every one of whom you’ve pushed away. You could
always text Wizard, she understands you.
I didn’t text her. I put my phone away and I waited. If you wait long
enough, another trade will always come. Maybe it was then I started to go
mad.
—
I think someone might have noticed I wasn’t quite right, because senior
management decided to allocate me a young Japanese kid called KousukeTamura to be my junior trader, bringing the number of men on my team
doing one man’s work up to four, like a set of fucking trading Russian dolls.
There was, of course, no work for Kousuke to do, so Kousuke spent all day,
every day creating a grand, enormous trading spreadsheet, analyzing all of the
markets in STIRT.
One day, in the afternoon, I saw Kousuke select the whole spreadsheet,
delete the entire thing, and start from the beginning, afresh. I pulled Kousuke
aside the next day, in a moment when Hisa wasn’t there, and I asked him very
quietly, “Hey listen, did you delete your whole spreadsheet yesterday?”
Without a moment’s hesitation, and with his face an Easter Island statue of
seriousness, Kousuke nodded. I was baﬄed.
“What the fuck? What the fuck man…W hy!?!?”
Kousuke glanced over both shoulders, and then looked me deep in the
eyes.
“Don’t ﬁnish work. Don’t ever ﬁnish work. You ﬁnish work, you get more
work to do.”
—
For me, this was a real problem. Because I hadn’t done any work in about a
year. Even in my last nine months in London, I had barely traded. Titzy had
done most of it for me. Now there wasn’t even any trading to do.
It wasn’t that I was lazy. I had lost the capacity somehow. I had lost the
capacity to do work. I had lost the capacity to give a shit. I couldn’t even buy
a sofa for fuck’s sake. I probably would have stopped eating if it weren’t for
the fact that if I went three hours without a meal my heart started to set itself
on ﬁre. It was becoming a serious struggle just to shower every day.
I had still made money though. I had always made money. That was easy.
All you had to do was bet on disaster. The end of the economy. The end of
the world. That had been the last thread connecting me to humanity.
Suddenly I’d lost even that.
I used to get into work at eight in the morning. Everyone got in at eight in
the morning, even though there was fuck all to do. All the action in marketshappens in London and New York trading hours, which are the Tokyo
afternoon and evening into the night. No one in the whole fucking world is
awake at fucking 8 a.m. in the Tokyo fucking morning except ﬁsh. But still,
though, we had to get in.
There was like, the tiniest bit of trading to do. A little business in yen FX
swaps. I could have done it in twenty minutes, but if I stretched it to its
absolute maximum it could take me up to 10 a.m. After that, what was there
to do? Nothing. I’d shoot the breeze about the economy with Arthur and
Kousuke, practice my Japanese with the lunch connoisseurs. The truth is, they
were all about as busy as I was, but they were great at pretending to work.
I wasn’t. After ten I would sleep. I would nap with my feet on the desk. I
would nap with my feet on the ﬂoor. I would wake up with my insides on ﬁre
and I’d run out to buy noodles. I would bring up the PnL sheet from the
London desk to see how Titzy was doing now he’d got my old job. I would
take 300 one-yen coins that I had been collecting, in a little bag, to the ﬂoor
cafeteria and use them to buy random Japanese snacks and green tea. There
was nothing. Fucking Nothing. To do.
Hisa hated it. Hisa hated all of it.
There is this weird thing in Japanese culture where people won’t tell you if
they are pissed oﬀ with you, at least not directly. What they will often do,
instead, is to manifest physical pain in themselves.
Let me give you an example. If you are studying beginners’ Japanese, in a
textbook, one of the ﬁrst words you will learn is iie, for no. Technically,
according to the dictionary, this is the correct word, but no one ever actually
uses it. Why? Because no one ever actually says no! There’s a kind of a
wobbly nasal grunt you can do, but that’s more an internationally accepted
sound for “no,” and you can only really use it with your friends. With people
you aren’t that close with, you just never say no.
So what do you do then if someone asks you to hang out on Saturday, and
you have a hot date on Saturday? Do you say no? Of course not. What you do
is you tilt your head to the side, and you grimace and you sharply inhale
through your teeth, as if aﬄicted with toothache. The other person, seeing
your sudden pain, understands this to be no and backs oﬀ.Hisa started doing this constantly. The problem was, I didn’t understand.
I’d put my feet up on the table and Hisa would hiss like I’d stepped on his
foot. I’d turn and look at him, confused, and then try and nod oﬀ. Hisa would
contort his body and breathe out really throaty and slowly, as if pulling an
arrow from his back like the fucking Japanese Saint Sebastian. I’d raise one
eye and look at him concerned. Continually failing to transmit his displeasure,
Hisa would up his game again and again, to the point where he looked to be
experiencing total organ failure. It was driving me slowly insane. I started to
take a lot of breaks oﬀ the desk to go to the bathroom and brush my teeth.
But there’s only so many times a man can brush his teeth.
There was nothing else to do though, so in the end I tried to do what
everyone else was doing, perhaps what everyone behind all of those
skyscraper windows is still doing today, I got down and pretended to work.
—
It wasn’t good for me. The heart pain got worse. I was losing more weight that
I didn’t have and I had to register with a private doctor just to get me some
more PPIs.
I tried to do some cooking to take my mind oﬀ of things. I’d cooked a lot
back in London, but in Japan I’d always get everything wrong—when I tried
to buy beef, it’d be pork; when I tried to buy pork, it’d be beef. Goddamn
why does Japanese beef look so much like pork!
Failing to cook, I would wander the back alleys of Akasaka in the evening,
like a hungry ghost looking for food. Akasaka is a fancy area, and there’s
plenty of restaurants, but none would speak English and there’d never be an
English menu. In the end I’d ﬂoat into a sushi place and just shrug, and they’d
sit me down and feed me anyway. It was expensive, but never enough to ﬁll
me up. I’d get a Big Mac as I ﬂoated home.
I was failing at not sleeping in the oﬃce, and it started to aﬀect my sleep at
home. I started waking up in a cold sweat at two or three in the morning.
When that happened, I’d put my trainers on and I’d run to the Outer Garden
and then all the way around the Emperor’s Palace. It’s about 5K to run allaround. After that, I could sleep for maybe an hour. There was a gym on the
top ﬂoor of my building and if it was open I’d go in there and run 5K on the
treadmill. I managed to get my 5K down to nearly 18 minutes. One morning I
tried to beat 18 minutes but I had to stop and go back to my room and throw
up. I started to get this bleeding in my gums so I went back to the doctor and
he told me to stop brushing my teeth so hard.
—
People were starting to worry about me. I was down to 55 kilograms now.
Caleb was worrying and management were worrying. I’m not sure they’d
noticed how skinny I’d gotten, but my lack of work ethic was embarrassing
for all. Caleb had promised the bosses the kind of kid who carries a hundred
burgers in a single lunch break. He’d delivered a kid who was, in most general
cases, either sleeping or brushing his teeth.
He invited me over to his house, which was a beautiful place in the Yoyogi
area of Tokyo, close to the city’s biggest shrine, Meiji Jingu, and its biggest
park, Yoyogi Koen. I met the beautiful children and the beautiful wife with
whom Caleb had shared the travails of his misplaced thermostat.
They were lovely, they were all really lovely. We had dinner and together
we drank.
But something was missing, something important was missing. I was
wasting away and nobody noticed. Nobody could see I was gone.
I tried to reach out for something that night, something in Caleb,
something important. I reached out, and I tried to search in him, for
something there to which I could hold on—something human, something I
could feel.
But there was nothing there. He was gone too.
6
A FEW MORE ATTEMPTS WERE made to cheer me up. Most notably by Florent
LeBoeuf.
Florent LeBoeuf had been in my year at LSE and was not in the slightest
doubt that we were old friends. I’d never seen the boy before in my life.
Chunky and gamely, with terrible posture, Florent had the air of an
unkempt teddy bear. He had moved to Japan with the express ambition of
sleeping with as many women as possible (an ambition not uncommon for
gaijin in Tokyo) but was plagued by a deep paranoia that Japanese prostitutes
were trying to steal his sperm. I quite enjoyed the poetic symmetry that
balanced his dreams and his fears.
Florent was in no doubt regarding what was needed to raise my spirits. He
convened the young gaijin traders, and they took me out to Roppongi.
Just south of Akasaka, Roppongi is one of several nightlife centers in
Tokyo. A vast, elevated highway arches over it, beneath which hustlers sell
women and kebabs. Overlooking it all, at the end of the road, a huge, bright
orange Eiﬀel Tower reaches up and pierces the sky.
Roppongi is famous for gaijin. Roppongi is where gaijin go. Back when I
lived in Tokyo, and even still now, I think, most Japanese were not
comfortable speaking English, and many would, in fact, give foreigners quite
a wide berth. But there are thirty-eight million people in Tokyo, and even if
one percent of one percent of those people are young women with a
fetishistic obsession for foreigners, then that is still three thousand, eight
hundred women. All of those women are in Roppongi.We started oﬀ in a small bar that was, bizarrely, decorated from the inside
to look like the carriage of a train. The clientele was the typical Roppongi
fare: foreign-looking bankery types (of which, of course, I was one),
dangerous-looking Japanese women.
We’d each drunk one can from a convenience store on the way there (the
ubiquitous and appropriately named grapefruit drink: Strong), and Florent
ordered our second round. While we waited for those, Florent taught me.
“You see those two girls over there? You can get them. Well, one of them.
Either one. Which one do you like? Up to you. Anyway. You go there. You
say hi. You smile and you bow, just a little. Make eye contact. Introduce
yourself. Tell them your name. Ask them if you can buy them drinks. Buy
them drinks. Pick one. Talk to her more. Touch her on the arm. Ask her to
go with you, over there, to that corner. You take her home. Bam!”
I had not requested this lesson, but I appreciated it, even if only for its
pointillistic style. After the bar, we went to a nightclub called Gas Panic and,
as if intentionally designed to undermine Florent’s neatly crafted strategy, one
of the traders simply walked up to a girl he had never seen before and started
making out with her, without saying anything.
I felt a little sick, in my stomach. Maybe it showed on my face. Florent’s
heavy arm snaked around me.
“Don’t worry mate, you don’t need to do that. Come on man. We go to
strip club.”
—
“Do you think we should do something?”
Now that Kousuke had been brought over to be my junior, a decision had
been made to recall Arthur back to Sydney, sadly separating him from his
girlfriend. This was to be his second last day on the desk. He was eating sushi
from a clear plastic box.
“About what?” He spoke full-mouthed, loudly.
“I dunno…you know…About the economy.”
“We already did something, we bought the green Eurodollars.”“You bought the green Eurodollars, I already had them. There’s no point
buying more at these levels. Besides, that’s not what I’m talking about.”
“What you talking about then?”
The last of the rice was being shoveled in with chopsticks.
“I’m talking, you know, about the economy! Do you think we should do
something about the economy?”
Arthur had ﬁnished his sushi, so he snapped his wooden chopsticks in half
and dumped them into the plastic container, then sealed it shut.
“I don’t know what you mean.”
I was getting a kind of a stabbing sensation in my left temple.
“Arthur. I’m talking about the economy. Should we do something? About
the economy. What the fuck is there to not understand?”
Arthur chewed that for a bit and he moved his chair closer to mine, and
then leaned in as if we were about to do a drug deal.
“So…We’re not talking about the green Eurodollars here…Am I right?”
“For FUCK’S sake Arthur, this is not about fucking green Eurodollars!
The economy is going to be fucking shit for fucking ever! Do you think we
should do something about that!?”
Arthur withdrew his chair about a meter and he balanced me, with his
eyes. For a moment, he tried a smile. The smile hesitated and pondered a
little. Arthur leaned into the desk with his arms.
“You’re fucking serious, aren’t you?”
“Yes, Arthur, I am fucking serious, do you think we should fucking do
something about the fucking economy!? Fucking hell…”
Arthur paused so that he could reload an extra-loud laugh.
“What are you gonna do mate? You gonna become fucking Prime
Minister? You gonna save the whole fucking world??”
“Well I don’t fucking know, what the fuck do you think we should do? Sit
here and do fucking nothing?”
“Ahhhh mate. Things are all right mate. We didn’t do fucking nothing, we
bought the green Eurodollars! And we made a ton of money. You don’t need
to worry mate, you’re gonna be fucking minted. You’ve got this whole thing
ﬁgured out!”“Yeah, but…” Yeah, but fucking nothing. It passed through me. I knew he
was right. “I dunno…I just…I don’t know mate. It just…? It doesn’t feel
right.”
“You’re being ridiculous mate. What the fuck are you talking about? What
could you even fucking do anyway?”
“I dunno. I could go back to, back to university…M aybe? Try to show the
guys there that they’re wrong.”
I thought about the universities, about the dusty poindexters locked up
inside them, inverting matrices in little rooms with no windows, and the idea
of them changing the world. Then it was my turn to laugh.
Arthur went back home after that. I’m pretty sure he’s still a trader, not yet
the leader of the free world. He’ll do it though, I reckon, eventually, after ten
or ﬁfteen million pounds.
7
ARTHUR LEFT AND THE WINTER came after. It was cold and the trees were all
bare. Tokyo’s winter’s not like London’s winter. It’s blue and all day there’s
the sun.
With Arthur gone, I only had Kousuke. Kousuke seemed a nice boy:
earnest, honest-looking, hard working. He had that unexceptional but
doggedly determined vibe of protagonists in Japanese teen animes. No matter
how many times he ﬁnished that spreadsheet, I was certain he’d never give up.
I wanted to get to know the guy. He seemed, like, not a maniac, which was
a rarity at that time in my life. The problem was he spoke very little English.
As my Japanese got better, we were able to speak more and more. One day
he told me that he memorized ﬁve new English words every single day, and
had been doing so for ﬁfteen years. I was shocked by this, because his English
had seemed very poor, and I asked him to show me his words for that day.
The ﬁrst word on the list was “notwithstanding.” I realized then that his
English was actually perfect, it was just hidden behind his accent.
Once this problem was hurdled, our ability to communicate began to
advance rapidly. I attuned myself to his staccato-Katakana English and I tried
also to speak it myself. This proved a breakthrough not only in my
communication with Kousuke, but also with the whole of Japan.
Now, Japanese people will tell you they don’t understand English, but if
you speak Katakana, they do. Katakana is a Japanese phonetic alphabet that
makes English words sound like Japanese—it’s not “black pepper,” it’s “bu-
rak-ku-pep-paa,” it’s not “table,” it’s “te-e-bu-ru.” If you ask your hotelreception for an “iron,” they’ll look at you baﬄed; ask for an “a-i-ro-n,” and
it’ll be in your room.
Being able to talk properly to Kousuke was a real relief. You don’t realize
how deep a need it is to talk to people who are not crazy until you’ve not done
it for a while. I asked Kousuke to go for dinner.
Kousuke was born and raised on the East Side of Tokyo, the old town, the
shitamachi as they call it, and he took me there for okonomiyaki.
Okonomiyaki is a kind of Japanese savory pancake. It’s mostly cabbage, I
think. It’s big, it’s delicious, and it costs about a ﬁver. In London it’s £25.
We turned oﬀ the street and went up a tiny, narrow wooden staircase. A
sliding wooden door, a jangling of silver bells, a loud, welcoming shout:
“irrashai!” Bow down, through the fabric, inside.
Inside was all wood and warm lighting, every inch of every wall plastered
with old Japanese movie posters, from, I don’t know, the ﬁfties? Customers
sat beneath low tables bearing huge pancakes, steaming on metal hot plates.
In the oﬃce, Kousuke was always quiet and self-possessed. Here, as we sat
down, he emitted an ear-piercing scream. A waitress appeared, suddenly, like
a cat. “Toriaezu—biiru.” First things ﬁrst, beer.
There was much that I wanted to say. I explained to Kousuke that I had a
girlfriend, back at home, that she was coming to Japan but was not there yet. I
was pretty sure that I had not hidden this from anyone, and yet there seemed
not a man in the Tokyo oﬃce unwilling to sprinkle strange women on me.
Kousuke drank his beer heartily, and he hummed and hawed at that,
thoughtfully.
I told him how I couldn’t stand Hisa, constantly twisting and grimacing
and observing. Kousuke deeply understood this. Hisa was, as anyone could
see, “a man with a very small heart.”
I went further, and told him that Caleb had once been a great mentor and
idol of mine, that I’d been hoping to rebuild our relationship, and yet,
somehow, that he was not there.
I think something might have been a bit lost in translation on that one, but
Kousuke conveyed his sympathies, anyway. So earnest and deep were those
sympathies, that I felt I should probably move on.The reason that I’d asked for this meal was that I needed to tell someone,
maybe anyone, that I was going to quit. For real this time, I’d really leave.
That I would wait until bonus day, in January, and then, when the bonus hit
the bank, I would go to Caleb and I’d tell him that I was done, I was out. That
I was going to work for charity, and that, in so doing, I would keep all of my
deferred stock. That Caleb had done the same himself, in the past, and as
such, then, he’d surely let me.
Often, Japanese people can be hard to read. They don’t show their
emotions on their face. But Kousuke looked at me, and he struggled for
words. I could see he was worried for me.
—
I had my bicycle by then. It had been ﬂown over all the way from London.
Often I’d spend the whole weekend on it.
I’d cycle south to the bright orange Tokyo Tower. Nine meters taller than
the Eiﬀel Tower, right next to my doctor’s oﬃce, there’s a Family Mart
convenience store on the ﬁrst ﬂoor. You can go there and buy a carton of
milk. A park lies just beneath it, with the old temple, Zojo-ji. A couple times
I heard Buddhist monks chanting, in there, and when it comes to the night,
and the tower turns its lights on, before the orange the temple glows black.
I’d cycle west, to the huge torii gates of Meiji Jingu, or the bustling
Takeshita Dori, or the wide-open plaza at the entrance of Yoyogi Koen,
where on Sundays, middle-aged men with Elvis haircuts gather round old
ghetto blasters and dance battle each other to death.
I’d cycle east to the reclaimed-land, abandoned-skyscraper district of
Shiodome, where they took the tops from the mountains and they ﬁlled in the
sea, and beyond it to Tsukiji Market, where the huge tuna heads pile up in
buckets, with their cheeks scraped out, and to Hama-rikyu-teien, where
there’s a little tea house, and for 500 yen an old Japanese lady will give you
beautiful little sweets and green tea.
I’d cycle north to Ueno Koen, with the ponds with the turtles and carp you
can feed, or to Senso-Ji temple with its huge, smoking cauldrons of incense,and, if you go past the cauldrons of incense, gray, wizened, curved men and
women shake little wooden boxes that tell their fortunes.
Sometimes, I’d go all the way round to Odaiba, the huge fake island in the
middle of Tokyo bay, which took a long time, because you can’t cycle across
the bridge. There’s a fake beach there with a sea that you can’t swim in, and a
fake Statue of Liberty as well, and I’d sit on a little wooden pole by the fake
beach and I’d watch the sun go down over the city, and I’d wait for the lights
to light up Rainbow Bridge.
At the end of December, for Christmas, I went back to London, and I
lived, for two weeks, in a hotel in the Westﬁeld shopping center in Stratford,
which is the worst place in the whole world, and Wizard came there, and she
held me, and, when she did that, both my legs started to shake.
8
2013 NOW. RECKONING COMES. I knew the day was closing in.
The only things I remember about bonus day are that the Frog gave it to
me on a big video screen, and that Caleb was also there with me, in the room.
They wrote the number in yen so it looked really massive. I don’t remember
the number itself at all, but I remember my PnL, of course. I’d made 18
million dollars before I stopped trading, so what must I have gotten? Eighteen
times point zero seven. One point two six million dollars. Something like that.
That day was in late January, and once that passed it was a countdown till
the money hit the bank, sometime in early February. I checked the account
every day. The money hit on a Thursday, so the next day was a Friday, and I
was supposed to arrange to go and talk to Caleb on that day. But I didn’t.
What can you say? Coward, I guess.
It was a diﬃcult weekend. I was feeling really shifty. Something shuﬄed
round under my skin. Wizard was in Japan by then, but she wasn’t in Tokyo,
she had moved to East Osaka, close to Nara, about 300 miles west of me. I’m
not quite sure why she did that. I told her I was quitting over a Skype call. She
was happy, she’d always wanted me to quit.
Monday. Caleb agreed to meet me in his corner oﬃce. Caleb had insisted
upon a corner oﬃce as one of his conditions for returning to the bank. I know
that because he’d told us: me, JB and Billy, that night last summer as we
drank by the Thames. I could see for miles in two directions, to the west, and
to the south. One sturdy, wooden table, two sturdy, wooden shoulders. Behind
them, in the distance, obscured by tall trees, the Emperor’s Palace.There was a watchfulness, a seriousness, about Caleb, which I noticed the
moment that I entered the room, and to which I was not accustomed. In
hindsight, I suppose that, given the timing, he must have known what I was
going to do, but, for some reason, that never occurred to me at the time. All I
noticed was the tightened control in the eyes and the mouth. Muscle, caught
and held, in mid motion. A chess player; a poker player; a wolf.
I sat. As we always had done, he looked down and I looked up.
Did he know what I was going to say?
I told him, of course.
I’ve never been much of a planner, and my speech was not well rehearsed.
There were a few beats that I needed to hit: that I was leaving; that I was
sorry; that I would go to work for charity (something about inequality); that in
recognition of all he and Citi had done for me, I would work the rest of the
year for no bonus, but that after that I really would leave. Really, this time.
That last addition, about the year with no bonus, was an artistic ﬂourish: it
had been exactly what Caleb had oﬀered the Slug in 2009.
Those were my beats, but I missed them, and often I stumbled and fell. I
lapsed into long spiels about sickness, and I spoke of my stomach and heart.
Things got a mention that deﬁnitely weren’t supposed to get a mention: my
trainers (why always the trainers?); Gas Panic; Quentin Benting. I think I may
well have seemed mad.
Did Caleb soften as I crumbled before him? Did his eyes glisten when I
said I was sick? The truth is, to be honest, I don’t know. It’s almost as if I
wasn’t there. My memory of that speech is hazy, at best—as obscure as my
delivery. I do not remember myself speaking, I’m piecing the words together.
I remember clearly though, once I had ﬁnished, the way he shifted in his
chair. There was a note there, an air of compassion, which I knew, instantly,
wasn’t real. Compassion is a thing to hold on to. There was nothing to grasp
in this man.
Caleb was sorry. He was deeply sorry. He knew it was diﬃcult for me. He
had moved, he himself, too, to Tokyo, when he was still just a young man. He
knew what a hard place it could be; how lonely, how cold it could feel. But
the bank didn’t want me to leave, though. They valued my eﬀorts, my work.Take some time. Don’t rush. Don’t be hasty. Come back. Speak to me in two
weeks.
—
I felt like the cartoon man who jumps from a building, only to land on a
trampoline and bounce back where he stood. I was back there, once more, on
the STIRT desk.
But I wasn’t, no, something had changed.
An hourglass had been turned, something had started. At that point, my
brain didn’t know it, but I knew it though, deep in my bones.
I felt instinctively that something was wrong, but I didn’t know quite what
it was. I smashed out an email to HR, asking for a meeting. I wanted to make
sure Caleb couldn’t do anything: cancel my deferred stock, block my route
out.
I had to get down to HR secretly. I couldn’t reveal my mistrust.
—
An icicle sat there before me, modeling a chair in a windowless room. Tall,
blond, Swiss? Maybe Swedish. Her ﬁngers were slender and long.
Unblemished in all aspects of deportment and grooming, she shuﬄed papers
and measured my eyes.
Can management cancel your deferred stock? No of course they can’t. Is it
possible to leave the bank and work for charity and keep all your deferred
stock? I’ve not heard of that, I’ll look into it. But Gary, are you OK? You
seem rattled. Tell me, you don’t seem quite all there. It’s OK, we are here to
protect you.
I didn’t feel that reassured.
9
THE NEXT TWO WEEKS JUST blew across me, with the sharp edge of the winter
wind. I took the train out west to Hyotan-yama in Higashi-Osaka, to see
Wizard. Oﬀ the bullet train at Kyoto Station. Change again at Yamato-
Saidaiji.
There’s a festival in Nara, near where Wizard was living, called
“Yamayaki,” which kind of means “burn the mountain.” Wizard was working
her job as an English teacher in a local middle school that day, so I went out
to see it alone. They set the whole of Mount Wakakusa on ﬁre, and then
Nara’s ancient temples, too, glow black in the orange.
It’s impressive; the whole mountain on ﬁre; ﬁreworks; the huge crowds; the
smoke. It must be dangerous to set a whole mountain on ﬁre, but the ﬁre
engines were all there. They cut all the dry grass around the mountain, to
make sure that the ﬁre can’t spread.
What about me? Had I cut all my dry grass? Would the ﬁre engines come
for me?
—
Two weeks just passed in an instant, and once more I was back on the desk. It
was time, then, for my second meeting.
For some reason, Caleb did not hold this meeting in his oﬃce. He must
not have wanted the Emperor to see. He took me to a windowless white
room, in the guts of the building somewhere.“So, you’ve had now your two weeks to think about it. Are you still sure
that you want to leave?”
What could change? What could possibly have changed?
“Yes. I am.”
“OK. Well…I’ve looked into the details, of leaving the bank to go work
for charity. I’m afraid to tell you that the option is only possible with the
approval of bank management. Bank management will not be giving
approval.”
He smiled. Big piano teeth, shining. By that point the bank owed me, I
think, more than 1.5 million pounds. It might have been closer to two. I was
well past my era of remembering numbers, by then, it was above my
threshold for “more than a lot.”
It was clear what he was saying. You can leave, but the money stays here.
I didn’t like that. No, I didn’t like that. That isn’t how one robs a bank.
The realization that had been caught in my bones ﬂooded ﬁnally into my
brain.
It’s war, then. It’s war that they’re wanting.
I said to myself, that’s no problem. It’s not the ﬁrst war in your life.
—
What happened after that was the rapid descent of my entire life into a farce.
I entered what I now remember as “the Meeting Period”; the part of my life
which was only meetings.
Suddenly, I was called in to three or four meetings every day. It wasn’t
always exactly three or four, some days may have been two or ﬁve, but
meetings replaced trades as the building blocks of my life.
All meetings were with senior management, but the combination was quite
variable. For example, in the morning, I may have had a one-on-one meeting
with Hisa Watanabe: he’d smile and he’d pat me on the back. In the early
afternoon, it would be a video call, with Rupert Hobhouse and the Frog:
they’d orate my decline sternly, in grave tones; I’d stare at my feet and I’dnod. In the evening, it was Caleb in the room, and the Slug on the screen: we
believe in you! You can do this!
Between Hisa, Rupert, Caleb, the Frog, the Slug, and the many, many
other managers who I’d never met before but were suddenly very keen to be a
part of the action, the possible permutations were endless, and there were so
many diﬀerent games we could play. Rupert and the Frog liked an Imparting
Of Wisdom and, in general, to Talk Of Themselves. Hisa and the Slug were
keen on Support And Encouragement, and generally were Pretty Nice. Caleb
was a surprising fan of The Hairdryer, and enjoyed a Good Cop/Bad Cop
vibe.
My favorite meetings were The Shoutings. The Shoutings were always
quite fun. Caleb did a lot of these, shouting and shouting: “We’ve Been So
Good To You!,” “How Dare You!” and other things such as that. They were
always much better in person, when ﬁngers could be jabbed into faces. They
lost a lot of impact on videoconferences, where people could accidentally
leave their microphone on mute, so I’d work especially hard to ham those
ones up. Yes, I enjoyed The Shoutings, they reminded me of being a kid, and
you don’t get them much as an adult. I wondered if they were ever eﬀective. It
would be strange, to change one’s mind, wouldn’t it? Simply due to a shouting
in one’s face. I wonder if anyone ever does it.
The general vibe of the meetings was that I needed to Man Up And Make
A Choice. Was I going to Be A Man And Do The Job? Or was I going to
Fuck Oﬀ And Walk Out?
Tricky choice.
The best ones for this vibe were the Imparting Of Wisdoms, because you
got to see a little of how people thought. On a video call from London, the
Frog sat me down and told me very matter of factly that, even if I could have
been able to keep all the money (which of course, I deﬁnitely couldn’t), that
the amount of money was never enough. How much had I made, after taxes?
What was it? Two million pounds? He let out a big laugh at that number. That
wouldn’t even last me ﬁve years! I’d be back on my hands and knees,
begging! We both laughed, and I looked at my shoes.Rupert was fun too. I liked him. He spent a lot of time Talking About His
Dad. His Dad Who Used To Be In The Army. He’d once told His Dad he
wasn’t happy with his bonus, and His Dad had told him to Man Up. I wasn’t
sure how that was relevant. I guess it meant I should Man Up As Well.
But the best feature of all the meetings, without any doubt, was the
phenomenal Inconsistency of Roles. This was not oﬃcial Citibank strategy, so
I probably shouldn’t have capitalized it, but it did give me the will to live.
Such color! Such drama! Such theater! You never knew who you were going
to get! Caleb’s Bad Cop act would often be immediately followed by the
Slug’s Good Cop, and there were a few joyful opportunities where Caleb was
lucky enough to be present in both meetings. The dramatic juxtaposition
these occasions oﬀered was simply exquisite. Watching Caleb transform, in an
instant, from snarling wolf to teddy bear, it really gave you hope for
humanity. Nobody cared one bit about these inconsistencies. There are no
dishonest moves in chess. The only person who even noticed them was me, so
it seemed. And for me? Well, I truly loved them.
In the face of these various strategies, I made up a game of my own. It was
called Try To Say Nothing For As Long As Possible, and it’s something I
really perfected as a child. The aim of the game is pretty much explained by
the title—only grunts are allowed. This gave me something to play for, but at
times, such as the one-on-ones with the Frog or with Rupert, it was
disappointingly easy to win. It was best in Caleb’s adversarial meetings,
because you had to achieve a lot with your eyebrows.
At no point, in any of these meetings, did I ever engage in any way with
the Leave/Stay Dichotomy which was constantly laid at my feet. No way.
Fuck them. No way I was leaving and not taking my money. And no way was
I working anymore for those fucks. The thing was, the best outcome for me
was to be ﬁred. That way I would leave AND get the money I was owed. So
what the fuck were they gonna do? Nah, nah, no way. Fuck them.
Fuck them. Fuck them. Fuck them. Fuck them.
Those fuckers could shout me to death.
—Eventually, my lack of choice, and possibly my lack of actually saying any
words, provoked a Final And Very Big Meeting, in which every single
member of senior management was either present or there on the call.
The Slug took precedence at this meeting, which meant that The Meeting
Would Be Very Nice.
The Slug lined everyone up and he made his big plea. He said he
understood; that he knew I was sick. He believed it. He thought it was true.
The bank would throw everything behind me, to help me, to get me better.
Medical support, practical support, emotional support, whatever. Whatever I
needed, I’d get. All he needed, from me, was commitment. To be there. To
trade. To make cash.
Take it easy, he said, just relax, just let go. Don’t be stressed. Take The
Time That You Need. Don’t worry, he said, it is OK. We Will All Of Us Be
Here For You.
After that, he went through every single member of senior management,
one by one, and they each spoke of their belief in me. It was wonderful. Soul-
enriching. Heart-warming. When Caleb spoke he had tears in his eyes.
After that, I decided to try a new game. My trust in the Slug was
unblemished and total, and as such, I took him at his word. I Took All The
Time That I Needed, to Be Well, to Take Care Of Myself.
I Started Working My Contracted Hours.
My contracted hours were nine to ﬁve. I think it’s possible that everyone in
Japan’s contracted hours are nine to ﬁve.
Nobody works nine to ﬁve.
Having the full and unwavering support of every single member of senior
management behind me, I embraced a relaxed and holistic approach to my
work. I took an hour oﬀ the desk, for a lunch break, every day. Sometimes
even an hour and a half! I went on walks, in the winter air of Tokyo, to the
Outer Garden to count all the trees. Sometimes I was tired, so I thought I’d
Lean Into It. I’d put my hood up and I’d go to sleep.
It was wonderful. It was truly relaxing. It was the most PnL that I ever
made in one week in Tokyo. It was the last full week of my career.The next week, just after 9 a.m. on the Monday, Caleb came up to me and
touched me, on the shoulder, quite gently, and he asked me if I’d like to go
for dinner with him, in the evening, the following day.
And then, of course, that is when it happened.
10
IT WAS THEN, ON A cold, dark Tuesday evening in the middle of February 2013,
in the anonymous sixth-ﬂoor ramen restaurant of an anonymous Marunouchi
shopping center, that a large, very wealthy and fat-ﬁngered man, with a hatred
for ill-positioned thermostats, painted for me a vision of my life.
It was a future of courtrooms and poverty, years of bank robbery gone to
waste.
It was brutal, and behind it was power: one of the largest corporations in
the world.
What do you think? What do you think when you are twenty-six years old,
one of the most proﬁtable traders in the world, for one of the world’s biggest
banks, having come from nothing, having come from fucking £12 a week
paper rounds, and a man who was once your idol sits there, across a table
from you, over two bowls of ramen, and looks in your eyes and says to you,
“Sometimes bad things happen to good people. We can make life very
diﬃcult for you.”
As if he’s a gangster. As if he’s a don.
What do you think?
You know, it was almost exactly ten years before that day that I got
expelled from school. I wasn’t a drug dealer or nothing, but it was a grammar
school so it was kind of a posh school, and the kids there knew I could get
drugs.
And I could get drugs. They were right. It was true. I could get drugs
because there were drug dealers on my street. Quite a few. There were nodrug dealers on their streets, but there were drug dealers on my street. That’s
why posh kids would ask me to get them drugs, and that’s why I’m the kid
that got expelled.
And you know, those drug dealers, they didn’t have the options that I had,
or the options those other kids had. They cannot go to LSE. They cannot win
investment banking internships in card games. They have no reliable routes
out of poverty, and so, then, instead, they sell drugs. Sometimes they do other
things too—fraud, burglary. And some of them make money and others of
them don’t make money. And some of them go to prison and others of them
don’t go to prison. And sometimes, kids like that, really bad things happen to
them. Sometimes they get stabbed. Sometimes they get killed. Sometimes
people wait for them outside of nightclubs in cars and they wait for them to
cross the road and then they run them over, and then their bodies spasm on
the ﬂoor.
What I realized then, at that moment, is that we are the same. We are all
the same. The drug dealers, the bankers, the traders, me now, me then, Caleb,
Saravan, Brathap, Rupert Hobhouse, Jamie, Ibran, JB. We are all the same.
The only diﬀerence is how rich our dads were. If those drug dealers went to
Eton, or St. Paul’s, or whatever the fuck boarding school Rupert had gone to,
they would be there, with me, on the trading ﬂoor, sitting next to Arthur,
sitting next to JB. Buying fucking green Eurodollars. And if those traders
were born where I was born, in Barking Hospital, in East London, where
Bobby Moore was born and where John Terry was born and where a million
other little hustlers were born, selling penny sweets on their school breaks,
then they’d be there, too, selling drugs on the corners. We are the same. We
are all the same. Stupid. Smart. Young. Ambitious. Wanting to be something.
Not quite sure what. Chasing something, not knowing what we’re chasing.
Running to it and running away.
It’s just the path isn’t it, for young hungry hustlers, selling drugs or selling
fucking bonds. We’re all the same. We ain’t no fucking diﬀerent. It’s just
sometimes that God shakes the wrong box, in the wrong fucking temple
somewhere; and someone like me, or like Billy, falls out backward and lands
on our faces, in the wrong game, on the wrong fucking board.We’re the same. You’re not better than us. You’re not better than us. It’s
two diﬀerent games, from the very beginning. From the very beginning. Since
birth.
But you don’t think all that there, in the moment. All that stuﬀ ﬂoods
through you in your dreams. At the time you just ﬁx on that fat face, and you
think,
“Mate. Don’t talk like a gangster if you’re not a fucking gangster.”
And I knew, straight away, I would ﬁght.
It was not a decision, it was never a decision. Sometimes you have to look
the devil in the face.
Was it wise? Was it wise to ﬁght Citibank? One of the biggest
corporations in the world?
Well, I don’t know. Fuck it. I never did claim to be wise.
—
I didn’t sleep that night, not one single second. I went straight home and I
threw up. No fucking food in it. Just a weak fucking piss-colored bile. No
acid even, because of the pills. Wipe your mouth oﬀ and start pacing. Then
you pace and you pace and you pace.
I’d fucked it. I’d really fucking fucked it. I had come into this with no plan.
What the fuck can you do, now, at this point?
I’d already checked in with HR. The stuﬀ that he’d said was legit. I
couldn’t go work for charity unless they signed it oﬀ.
I wasn’t leaving without the fucking cash.
But that wasn’t even the game now. There was far more here now to be
played. The whole situation had switched round. Now it was my turn to
defend.
So, are they gonna sue me now? For what?
He couldn’t have had anything on me. If he had a hand he would have
showed it. To make it more clear I was fucked.
But did he need a hand? He probably fucking didn’t. Just like back in
2009 when the politicians said they were going to tax the banks and they allfucking laughed. They knew who was in charge. They could probably do the
same to the courts. This is Citibank we are talking about here. They probably
sue whoever they want.
But still. They can’t just walk it. They have to have something. Was there
anything? Could there be anything? Did they have anything to hold over me?
Thank fuck for Billy. Thank fuck for Cover. Your. Arse. I’d been covering
mine for a bit. I was clean. I was sure. There was nothing. I’d been playing it
clean. From the start.
Hadn’t I?
Was there something? There could have been something. How many
trades had I done? Fucking hell it must have been fucking millions. How
many chat conversations? How many calls with brokers? Every single one of
them recorded. Notarized, tabulated, ﬁled. They had every single one of
them. All of them. And what did I have? I didn’t have shit.
With all that evidence, they could always paint something. FUCK FUCK
FUCK FUCK.
What do you do?
It occurred to me that maybe they had overplayed their hand. Maybe
they’d thought there was more on me than there was. Maybe that was why
nobody in management ever asked me how I made so much money. Maybe
they thought there was some dodgy secret behind it all, and they didn’t want
blood on their hands. Maybe they thought that’s the only way dodgy kids like
me make fucking money, selling drugs or through some dodgy shit. Maybe
that’s what they do. Maybe that’s what their lives are like. Fucking over and
shitting on each other all the way up their grease-covered poles.
No. No. Gary. Not productive. You need to have a fucking plan here.
OK. This is it. You need to move ﬁrst. You need to move now-fucking-
quick.
What time does the doctor’s oﬃce open? The one close to Tokyo Tower.
Google it. Nine a.m. OK. As soon as that clock hits 9 a.m. you call that
fucking oﬃce and you get yourself the ﬁrst fucking appointment available.
You tell them you’re going insane. Ham it up a little. You tell them you’re not
eating, you’re not sleeping, you’re losing weight. Well, that’s not reallyhamming it up a little, it’s all true, but add a little something on top, anything.
Most of all you-get-fucking-sick-leave, you do not leave that fucking medical
oﬃce without a sicknote, then you send that email fucking immediately, to
everyone: to Caleb, to HR, to the Slug. Hit it up. As soon as you’ve done that
then you’ve raised that bar up high for them. A fake case is a fake case, but a
fake case against someone who has just applied for sick leave for stress is a
diﬀerent ballgame. It will look like punishment for the request. You’ll be
protected. Disability law or something? What the fuck do you know about
disability law? Fucking nothing. Listen don’t get mad at me here, what else
have you got?
Nothing. I didn’t have nothing. This was the plan and it’s what we would
do.
Should we ask someone for advice? What time is it now? Two a.m. That’s
still 5 p.m. in London, everyone will be awake. Who could you ask for
advice? Billy? Snoop?
Nah, this is my shit. This is my shit and I’ll fucking ﬁght it. I’ll fucking
ﬁght it and I’ll win.
I only texted one person, Kousuke, at 2:30 a .m.
“Kousuke, some fucked-up shit happened. Don’t tell anyone I text you.
Can I meet with you ASAP?”
I decided I would text the bosses at 5 a.m. and tell them I’d been up all
night throwing up so I couldn’t come in. That gave me three hours to kill. In
the deep night I ran round the palace.
I ran fucking fast round that palace, winter air on my ﬁngers and face. I
kept getting ﬂashbacks from the dinner. At the end of it, Caleb had wanted to
shake my hand, and I had literally no memory of whether I did it or not.
I guess that means I fucking did.
—
Five a.m. Send the text. No replies. Good.
Lot of time between 5 a.m. and 9 a.m. Can you sleep maybe? Set an
alarm. No, you can’t sleep. Go run again. When was the last time you ate?Nine a.m. Call the doctors. It’s a special doctor for foreigners; the
receptionist speaks English. When’s the ﬁrst appointment? Ten thirty.
Ten twenty, Tokyo Tower. Big and orange beneath the blue sky. Ten
twenty-eight, receptionist, sit down. Ten thirty, doctor’s oﬃce. Punctual. Sit
down and look like a madman. OK, you already look like a madman. Can you
look more like a madman?
Tell him everything.
“My boss is threatening to kill me.”
No. That’s too much, wind it back.
“Sorry I mean my boss is threatening to sue me. I’m really scared. I’ve lost
a lot of weight.”
He’s a tall Japanese man with a bald head and a white coat. He looks at
you, for a long time, using just his left eye, as if that’s the only good eye that
he’s got.
Two weeks of anti-anxieties. One month of sick leave. All scrawled down
in beautiful blue ballpoint pen on a little white slip of paper. That’ll do.
Back home now. Send the email. You went to the doctor, he’s worried
about you, he’s written you anti-anxieties and one month of sick leave. Tell
them you need to take the rest of the week oﬀ, because you fucking do
because you’re a mess. Turn oﬀ your fucking Blackberry.
Go to sleep now Gary. Go to sleep.
—
By the time I woke up it was the middle of the night. Well, I didn’t know
what time it was, to be honest, but it was already black in my room, even
though I’d fallen asleep with all my clothes on and the curtains wide open.
I didn’t turn my Blackberry on. Na fuck that. I didn’t need none of that
shit no more. But I looked at my phone. It was like eleven or something and
I’d gotten a text back from Kousuke.
“What’s happened? What’s wrong? I can meet you this evening or
tomorrow.”He’d sent it in the middle of the day. Well this evening was probably a lost
cause. I asked to meet him the next day.
I met Kousuke back outside the okonomiyaki place. God knows what I
looked like. From the look on Kousuke’s face when he saw me, probably like
a fucking mess.
I think it’s quite possible I was shaking a little, as I told Kousuke what had
happened over beers.
Kousuke’s mouth hung wide open. He couldn’t believe it. The thing about
Caleb is, he’s a fucking nice guy. He is, you know, he really is! If you met
him, you would like him. I promise. Everybody does. Everyone did.
Kousuke had nothing to say when I’d ﬁnished. He just sat there with his
mouth open, catching ﬂies.
Eventually, he realized it was his turn to say something.
“That’s illegaru!”
He shouted that, three times.
“Kousuke, I know it’s illegal. That doesn’t fucking matter mate, nobody
cares. This is Citibank, it’s the biggest fucking bank in the world. They can
just do whatever they want.”
“No! They cannot! This is Japan! There are rules! It is not allowed to
break any laws.”
“Kousuke, I think not breaking laws is a pretty fucking international rule
mate, and that hasn’t fucking stopped them, has it??”
Kousuke was angry, he was furious. He carried it in a bottled up, invisible
way that’s at home in his country and mine.
“You must record it. You have to record it. Buy a recorder. Make him say
it again.”
And he literally went to Yodobashi Camera and he turned up outside my
building on his little blue bicycle late in the next evening, and he handed me a
little, tiny handheld voice recorder that he’d bought and he repeated,
“Record everything. Make him say it again.”
Well, what can you say about Kousuke?
Good kid.—
What did I do the next few days? I drowned. And then Monday, back in the
oﬃce.
I’d been taken oﬀ the yen book, quite wisely. It had been given back to
Hisa. Touché. As such, the only reason for me to come into the oﬃce was to
walk straight into a meeting with Caleb.
This was to be an interesting meeting, for I was planning to debut a new
strategy. It was called Make Caleb As Angry As Possible So That He Says
Something Mental And You Can Record It. In a strange way, I was looking
forward to it. It would be a big switch-up in style.
I’d practiced using the handheld recorder a few times on the weekend. It
was a little cylinder of a thing, no longer than four inches, with a little red
record button on it. Obviously I couldn’t pull it out and press record in the
middle of the meeting, so I went to the bathroom ﬁrst and hit the button and
put it in my pocket. I’d trialed that out a few times at home, but still, I was
constantly terriﬁed I’d accidentally press the button again with my thigh and
switch the thing oﬀ.
Onto the trading ﬂoor and into the oﬃce. Here we go, time for a game.
From the very beginning, Caleb was restrained and placid. His storytelling
panache was all gone. What a shame. Such a far cry from the man in the
restaurant. I needed the old Caleb back.
Don’t give up! Poke him a little. Nothing. It was like getting blood from a
stone. Fuck! Why hadn’t I thought of this before the dinner in the restaurant?
Why hadn’t I recorded it then?
Maybe he knows. Maybe your sudden increase in expansiveness has drawn
his eyes to the bulge in your pocket.
Never mind that, keep going. Fucking hell, what have you got to lose?
“We’re very sorry that things have gone this way. We’re very sorry you’ve
made this choice.”
“You’re not sorry! You never fucking cared about me! You never gave me
a fucking chance! From the very beginning you’ve had Hisa fucking stuck up
my arse! How am I supposed to trade with him sitting behind me like that!?Fucking timing my fucking toilet breaks! What were you thinking fucking
keeping him on!? Everyone knows that he should have been ﬁred!”
“Oh Come On!” He’s shouting now. He’s cracking. We’ve got him! “It was
you who never gave it a chance. You’ve not been serious since the day you got
here. You always knew that you wanted to leave! Turning up the day after
bonus day and saying you want to quit. That was your plan since the day you
arrived! And you didn’t even take a moment to think about it, did you? You
went from my oﬃce straight to HR. Do you know how it makes me look, you
coming over to Tokyo and doing absolutely nothing? I moved heaven and
earth to get you here! Do you know what this makes me look like!? After
everything I did for you!? I hired you! I made you! You were nothing! All
that money we paid you!”
I should have let him run, but I didn’t.
“Money!? Oh I owe you money, do I!? Listen. For every fucking dollar I
made out of Citibank, Citibank made ten out of me. You fucking know it.
You know that’s the truth. And you never could have made it without me.”
That shut him up, and that sat him down, and for one moment I glowed
with pride. Then I remembered the whole plan had been to get him fucking
talking and we sat there for a minute in silence.
“So. Am I getting my sick leave then?”
He was right back to the Caleb that had entered the meeting. Cold,
professional, aloof. Fuck, I’d fucked it.
“We are not allowed to approve your sick leave. The Company Doctor will
decide.”
11
SOMEWHAT RIDICULOUSLY, I WAS BACK, once again, on the STIRT desk.
Sandwiched between Hisa and Kousuke, with literally no work to do. I pulled
out my Japanese textbooks and I started studying kanji.
I was pissed that I hadn’t gotten anything good from the meeting. And I
was shitting myself about the company doctor. It was obvious from what
Caleb had said that he had the whole of HR lined up. He was bound to have
the company doctor as well. If the company doctor denied my sick leave, I
would be fucked. I’d die if I stayed on the desk.
Wait a minute. Wait wait wait wait. Maybe we’ve got something here.
What did he say? “You went from my oﬃce straight to HR.” He shouldn’t be
in cahoots with HR, should he—surely that isn’t allowed? He shouldn’t know
that you went straight to HR after your ﬁrst meeting with him about leaving.
He shouldn’t know about that…right? That shit should be conﬁdential…
shouldn’t it? Fuck, maybe you’ve got something here.
Email HR under the pretense of arranging a meeting with the company
doctor.
Dear Icicle,
Could I have a meeting regarding my application for sick leave.
Kind regards,
Gary StevensonOnce more to the windowless room, dear friends. This time make sure you
press record.
As always, she’s cold and impassive. Her posture impossibly straight. In
the face of such prodigious straightness, I felt even more like a rat.
Who cares, there weren’t nobody looking. This time, at least, there’s a
plan.
“Can I ask you a question?”
My opening gambit.
“Of course, Gary, what’s the question?”
“Are our meetings conﬁdential?”
She hadn’t been expecting that. Did she waver a little? If she did it was less
than a blink.
“It depends.”
“It depends? What do you mean it depends?”
“It depends.”
“Depends on fucking what!?”
She placed both her perfect hands on the back of a perfect Moleskine
notebook. You really shouldn’t swear to HR.
“Some conversations are conﬁdential, and others are not conﬁdential. So
you see Gary, it really depends.”
“OK, so,” I was getting a little exasperated. “What is conﬁdential and
what’s not?”
“Well, for example, if you were to suggest anything about hurting yourself,
I’d have no choice but to escalate that.”
“Oh for fuck’s sake I’m not talking about hurting myself. Listen, when I
came to talk to you at the beginning of February, to ask you about me leaving
and going to work for charity, did you talk to Caleb about that?”
“No, I didn’t.”
She answered that quickly. Too quickly.
“Are you sure?”
“I did not talk to Caleb about that meeting.”
A slight pause. Are we going to do this? Yeah, we’re gonna do it.“OK so why have I just come right now out of a meeting with Caleb,
where he has told me that you did?”
A much, much, much longer pause now. I know, in fact, exactly how long
it was, because I have listened back to the recording several times. It was
forty-seven seconds. That’s a long pause in a one-on-one meeting.
Throughout the pause, the Icicle was motionless. Perfectly motionless, like
a statue. Her long, slender ﬁngers did not tap once on the back of her
notebook. Not the slightest quaver of her mouth. Her eyes did not dart. Was
she thinking? I’m pretty sure she didn’t even blink.
For my part, I vibrated gently. I wondered to myself as I watched her: does
her hair even sway in the wind?
Finally, she spoke:
“I have looked into the details of your deferred compensation, and of you
leaving to go work for charity. If you want to do that, no one can stop you. It’s
beyond the power of the bank.”
Well. What can you say about that then? There was still yet some ﬁght in
the rat.
—
After that, I went to the company doctor. He was three ﬂoors below, far from
the trading ﬂoor. In a small, brightly lit oﬃce, a middle-aged, salt-and-
pepper-haired, friendly-looking Japanese man sat low, arms on his ample
stomach, on a small plastic chair. Behind him stood a young, pretty Japanese
woman in a nurse’s uniform.
The man sat me down. He asked me what was wrong. It felt somehow as if
he cared.
Well. I suppose I should tell you what happened. I spoke for a minute, and
then I broke down. Those were the only people I could cry to. Two people I’d
never even met.
I don’t think I had realized, until that moment, quite how fucked I had
become. I think I had told myself, at times, that it was all just a strategy, a
game. Maybe it wasn’t a game though. Maybe it was my life.He wrote me three months’ paid sick leave.
—
After that, for a moment, I faltered. I wavered and I didn’t move.
Once more I found myself at the edge of the atrium. I looked down, but I
didn’t jump.
I had it now, I had my sick note. But I didn’t apply for the leave.
After I came out of the doctor’s oﬃce, I went back to the trading ﬂoor,
just to pick up my little string bag, and then I went home.
At some point that day, the cat must have gotten out of the bag, and the
situation escaped from the circle of just senior management. I know that
because I started getting texts from the guys back in London.
Snoopy texted, “Don’t give up! You can beat them! You’re smarter than
those fuckers!”
Titzy texted, “It will be a shame to see you go man, I thought you were
going to run this place one day.”
I thought I would get a text from Billy, but I didn’t until very late in the
evening. It said: “You all right Gal? Management said you’re trying to leave,
and they keep asking me to get you to stay. They said that you applied for
sick leave for stress. What’s up Gal? R u OK?”
That was the only message I replied to.
“Don’t worry about me boss. I’m always OK.”
Probably that was a lie.
—
So. Why didn’t I apply for the sick leave?
What I told myself at the time was that it was risky. I was worried that if I
applied for the sick leave, it would trigger legal action from the bank.
Was that real though? Was that danger real? You can’t get sued for going
on sick leave…can you?
I suppose, looking back, it was more than that. I think on some level I
knew what it meant. No more PnL, no more Liquidator. No more enviouslooks from ambitious young men.
I had a meeting with Rupert, for the meetings had still not stopped. There
was no one else in this meeting, just Rupert and me. He was on the screen, on
the video call, in Caleb’s bright room in the sky.
I sat down and I looked at my shoes.
“You know, Gary, nobody believes you. Nobody believes that you’re sick.
They think that this whole thing’s a ploy, for more money, or to get out of the
bank with your deferred stock, so you can go and work for Goldman Sachs.”
I did nothing, I stared and I nodded. Sometimes I used to do long division
in my head.
“But I believe you.”
That caught my attention. I looked up and into the screen.
“Gary, where would you want to be right now? If you could be anywhere?”
I thought about it for a little, and then I answered him honestly.
“Nowhere. I don’t want to be anywhere. To be honest Hobbs, I don’t really
care.”
“How’s Harry?”
“How’s Harry!? He’s ﬁne…Yeah, he’s ﬁne.”
Of course, Rupert had no idea that we’d fallen out, that I’d not spoken to
Harry in nearly a year.
“How about playing football with Harry, back on the street where you
grew up, in Ilford. Is that a place you’d rather be?”
How old was Harry when we started playing football together? He must
have been only ﬁve or six. I must have been nine or ten then, in that case.
How old was he when he got better than me?
“Yeah. Yeah I suppose so. Yeah, I would.”
Those days on the street were a long time ago, and that lamp post and that
telegraph pole, and that concave wall on the recycling center, they were all a
long, long way away. Often we’d kick the ball over into the recycling center,
and we’d have to climb in to get it, round the side. Over the big iron bridge,
through the garden of an old man who would shout at you through his
window, and then into the recycling center itself, with its huge mounds of old
dirty newspapers that must have been twenty feet tall. Then you’d kick theball over and you’d climb back around, and you’d start playing football again.
In the winter we’d keep going until way after the sun went down, until
someone’s mum came out and shouted it was time for dinner. Sometimes it
would be my mum, sometimes it would be Harry’s mum. Sometimes we’d eat
together, sometimes we’d eat alone.
“You can get there. You can get back to that place.”
No I fucking can’t, I’m never speaking to that kid again.
“It’s OK. Everything’s going to be OK. You just need to stay strong and
get through this. You will be OK.”
Why was he doing this? Why was Rupert doing this?
“Thanks Hobbs. I appreciate that. Thank you.”
“That’s OK, you’re going to be OK.”
Call signs oﬀ.
I sat there alone in the oﬃce, staring out at the Emperor’s Palace. I got a
text on my personal phone. It was Rupert.
“Apply for the sick leave. The bank can’t do anything. They don’t have
anything on you.”
So I did.
12
THREE MONTHS.
Three months isn’t a long time. To me it felt like forever.
I hadn’t had three months free since I’d been nineteen. I spent most of that
time ﬂuﬃng pillows.
It felt like coming up for air.
The ﬁrst thing I did was I took the bullet train out to Hyotanyama. Change
at Kyoto. Change at Yamato-saidaiji.
Wizard used to live in this tiny little plastic apartment that had been given
to her by her school. You slept at the top of a ladder, on a shelf, your nose
nearly touching the roof. Lots of young Japanese people live like that, no real
kitchen to speak of, windows frosted so no one can see.
The only heating was a little air conditioning unit, and in winter it was
always freezing. It was ours though, we didn’t have to share.
I went there and I don’t think I’d even told her I was coming, so she was
surprised but she wasn’t surprised.
We’d climb up the ladder and throw the futon to the ground, and I’d spend
a lot of time down there, on the ﬂoor, and she’d patter round and heat up a
cup of ramen, and ask me if I had seen any good ﬁlms.
It was cold but we’d dress up warm and go to a little local park in
Hyotanyama. She’d put down a little picnic blanket she had, and she’d lay on
her front, and I’d nestle my head in the small of her back and we’d both just
lie there and read books. Or we’d go to the big parks in Nara, see the huge,
old, wooden temples. Feed deer.But around it all still, there were meetings, which hadn’t stopped, even
though I was on sick leave, only now they were just on my phone. I’d lay the
phone down, on speakerphone, on the futon, and I’d lie next to it, on the ﬂoor.
I’d spread myself out, like a starﬁsh, and then I’d look upward, over my own
head, so that I was looking, upside down, through the frosted window, and as
management nattered on in the background, I’d watch the distorted blue sky
as it slowly turned black.
Sometimes Wizard would come, and sit next to me, and when she did that,
she’d pick the phone up and she’d just hang up the call, and she’d say,
“Come on Gary, that’s enough of that.”
—
I took a ﬂight home, to see my mum. I’m not sure why, we were never really
close. I took her out for a ride, on the little black Vespa that I’d bought with
my ﬁrst bonus, all the way through central London to Regent’s Park. We took
a walk, through the gardens and round the lake. I asked her why she’d never
learned to play guitar.
She looked at me strange. Everyone used to look at me strange back then.
Then she asked me,
“Gary, are you OK?”
And I said,
“Yeah yeah yeah. Yeah I’m OK. You know me, I’m always OK.”
—
On the plane back I watched Cool Hand Luke, for the ﬁrst time, with Paul
Newman, the most handsome man in the world. He gets sent to prison, I don’t
know, coz he’s messed up, and he ends up on a chain gang.
The leader of the gang is a bit of a bully, and he challenges Paul Newman
to a ﬁght. Paul is much smaller, and he doesn’t have a chance, and the bully
hits him again and again. Each time he goes down he gets up again, a
thousand times, till he’s beaten black and blue. Eventually the bully gives up.What a guy, I thought, that Paul Newman. What a wonderfully handsome
guy.
—
I ﬂoated for a bit, in this period, and my sleeping and eating were weird. I
slept in the day, and then in the night, I wandered and scavenged for food.
But I meant it, I really do mean it, there could not have been a better
place.
Tokyo has plenty of food, for the lonely man, and as spring comes, it
brings warmth as well.
There was a little ramen place, near my building. They did pork ramen,
but chicken ramen too. The broth was clear and ﬁne, and very vinegary. It
was delicious. That place is closed down nowadays.
The opening hours of that place were not very long, I usually slept through
them, but then there was Yoshinoya. Sweet Yoshinoya, the queen of my
nighttimes, your bright orange windows never let me down. Yoshinoya is 24/7
beef on rice. Delicious, always, fast and cheap. Unlimited pickled pink
ginger. Sometimes, they even sell eel.
There were things you couldn’t ﬁnd in Japan, like green peas. Sometimes, I
would miss them a lot. I ﬁnally found them in Saizeriya, the most Japanese
Italian restaurant chain in the world. Cheap, generous portions, beloved of
students, they’d mix the green peas in with bacon, and serve with a barely
cooked egg.
It wasn’t always fast food. Sometimes I’d be up at the right time, and I
could get something gourmet: steak frites at the French restaurant in
Toranomon. Citibank were still paying me, you know.
Not that you really need money, in Tokyo, to eat like a king. The sushi
might as well have been free. Sushi Zanmai, Kamiyacho, at least three times a
week. Tsukedon, marinated tuna on rice. The large size (oomori), the same
price. Comes with miso soup and green tea, for only 500 yen. They gave me a
little hundred-yen discount voucher every time I went, so then it was only 400
yen. £2.50! I’d sit at the counter and banter with the sushi man.Do yourself a favor. Go to an Izakaya. Ask for umeboshi ochadzuke. You
don’t have to thank me. Just enjoy.
Freshness Burger. Miso/shio/shouyu/tonkotsu ramen, in that order. But the
karashibi ramen in Kanda is the best. Banh mi from a back alley in
Takadanobaba. Cold soba with that brown sauce from 7-Eleven. Tuna
mayonnaise onigiri from 7-Eleven. Famichikin. Gyoza from that place in
Azabujuban. Tuna on rice, every day, for breakfast (if you’ve just woken up,
then it’s deﬁned as a breakfast). Dipping noodles from Fu-u-u-u-unji. Grilled
mackerel from Yayoiken.
All of these places were open, and full of alone, lonely men. The ramen
places were especially like that, and Yoshinoya deep into the night. Lonely
men line up next to one another, and slurp down delicious food, in a line.
Their shoulders and elbows rub against one another as they dip their
chopsticks into bowls. Then they pay their 600 yen, and they leave.
Where on earth could be better to be depressed?
I woke up in the middle of the day one day, fully clothed, and I checked
my phone. It was 12:37 p.m. I had 127 m issed calls, all from Harry.
I sat up in bed, and I thought for a little. The previous day had been his
birthday.
13
OK, I SUPPOSE IT’S TIME to move now. One should not wait for vengeance to
come.
Yes, yes. I had had enough ramen. It was time to go get lawyered up.
I messaged Sagar Malde. Remember him? The Kenyan boy from LSE.
He’d been at Lehman for two months before they collapsed back in 2008, and
he knew people who’d sued the bank. I needed someone who knew about that
kind of thing, and I asked him to put me in touch.
In the end, I ended up with three lawyers, one in the UK, one in America,
and one in Japan. It was expensive, but Citibank had upped my salary to
£120,000 a year when they moved me to Japan, so in a way, it was all on
them: the lawyers, the sushi, the ramen. I should really be thankful, I guess.
The lawyers didn’t really tell me anything I hadn’t already ﬁgured out for
myself.
Can the bank sue you for doing fucking nothing?
Well, obviously, legally, they shouldn’t. But you deﬁnitely wouldn’t be the
ﬁrst.
Can I go to work for charity and keep my deferred stock?
Technically, according to the paperwork, yes. But what’s paperwork
against Citibank?
Should I be suing the bank?
You could do, but you’d probably be in court for years, plus they owe you
two million pounds.Hmm, court forever. What do you think about court forever? Wasn’t that
what we were trying to avoid?
But in that case then, what are your options? There’s nothing to do really,
but wait. You sit out the rest of your three months, you sleep in the daytime.
You try to recover some weight. After the three months, you go back, apply
for charity (you’ll have to ﬁnd a charity) and hope that it works.
It wasn’t really a foolproof plan.
I found a video on the internet about wealth inequality. No one hardly ever
talked about wealth inequality back then. It was by a South African professor
who was teaching anthropology at LSE. I emailed him and told him I was
looking to work for a charity that was looking at wealth inequality. He put me
in touch with one, and we had a meeting. They said they would help me to
leave.
That was the only piece of work that I had. I waited for my time to run
out.
With the lawyers, and the charity, and some weight on my bones, I felt a
bit more conﬁdent. I had a plan now; I had a game. But it didn’t go away
though, that pounding sensation in my stomach and heart. I suppose it was
fear, what I felt then. I had these dull pains in my thighs.
I used to lie on the ﬂoor a lot. Belly down, in the sunlight, by the window.
It was exactly like I used to do when I was a kid, when I was expelled and I
didn’t have no school to go to. Belly down, on the ﬂoor, by the window, doing
maths homework on a little wooden board.
It doesn’t ﬁll me with pride to admit this, but I was terriﬁed about going
back. I was terriﬁed of those three months running out, and having to go back
to the bank.
Before long, the three months had gone. My ﬁrst meeting was with the
company doctor. I walked in and I told him, truthfully, how scared I was. The
terror I had of going back. He looked in my eyes and he nodded, and he
wrote me another three months.
—By then it was late May, which is a beautiful time to be in Tokyo. Many
Japanese don’t like it, because it is the beginning of the rainy season. The city
becomes very hot, very quickly, and the sun gathers a blazing strength. The
air becomes immensely humid, and when you go out, into the world, it feels
like a hot towel has been dropped on your shoulders.
I liked it. I really did like it a lot.
The Japanese word for “rainy season” is “tsuyu,” and the Chinese
characters that they use to write it, “/g0/g0,” translate to English as “plum rain.”
I’d never seen that rain before, in England; the rain that comes down as hot
plums. Heavy, hot rain comes down in thick walls, as if they were waves from
the sea.
The rain was so heavy that if I got caught in a rainstorm on my bicycle, I’d
be soaked through within ten seconds. I’d carry an entire spare set of clothes,
wrapped tight in a plastic bag inside my backpack, and when I arrived
anywhere, I’d have to get completely changed. My favorite was when it was
raining with a really strong wind; the hot rain driving into your face.
When I got written that second three months, the thought occurred to me,
of course: “Could it be this, then, forever?”
Could I live in this way, onward and onward, season after season, just
sick? As long as I was sick forever, I’d never have to go back to work. The
world would ﬂoat on, like the seasons, and I’d spend my life cycling through
rain.
How would that be? Would that be a good thing? Is that a good game? Is
that a good life?
I started to cycle even more in the nighttime, when it wasn’t so blindingly
hot. My favorite places to cycle were Shinjuku and Shibuya. Those two places
were palaces of neon, that would smudge through your eyes in the rain. One
time I cycled to Kabukicho, in Shinjuku. There were tiny bars there with
drunk Japanese people, the perfect places to practice Japanese.
I parked my bike toward the south end of the area, close to the Prince
Hotel and far from the bars. I wanted to walk through the packed, bright neon
alleys, to rub my shoulders with more lonely men.I locked my bicycle to the railings, in the broad plaza that faces the hotel.
To the front, a huge road is ﬁlled with taxis. They sit, in three lines, and they
purr. To the side, the green trains of the Yamanote line trundle over a railway
bridge. Everywhere tall tall tall buildings, and everywhere huge neon signs.
To the west, to my right, as I stand by the road, the skyscraper district looms
in the sky, one black tower draped in white metal cobwebs. Across the road,
glowing in orange, Yoshinoya places more beef on rice. Above it, a huge LED
screen, the size of ﬁve houses, rolls and glows. Kyary-Pamyu Pamyu dances
on that screen, enormous red bow on her head.
A hot wind hit my face as another train passed.
I suppose I should make this a home.
—
After that, I tried to do more. Learn more Japanese, make some friends.
I got myself a lovely, middle-aged Japanese tutor. Her name was Yoko
Ueno. She wore a face mask in every season: in summer, it was for the
humidity, in autumn, it was cold and ﬂu; in winter it was for the dryness, and
in spring to keep out the pollen.
I found out about “English Language Conversation Cafés,” which is where
insane people in Tokyo go to speak foreign languages. You sit there and drink
tea and you talk to nutcases. It was perfect for me, at the time.
My favorite English Language Conversation Café was in Takadanobaba, a
student area just to the north of Shinjuku. I loved watching the students. In
the summer, they’d get blind drunk in big groups and fall through the streets,
and then someone would drop to the ﬂoor. When that happened, their friends
would have to pull them up, but they’d lie there and shout, “I’m OK!” The
game was to try, with your whole might, just to stay there, to lie on the ﬂoor.
Normally, your friends manage to raise you. If they don’t, you just sleep there
all night.
I was getting better. I thought I was getting better. But I’d been away from
work for ﬁve months.The more time I spent out of the oﬃce, the more impossible it seemed to
go back. When I spoke to Wizard about the end of my sick leave, I would
sometimes get a little overwhelmed. I started to get these very slight twinges,
in the corner of my left eye, and these very slight shakes in my arm.
When that used to happen, Wizard would put her hand on my hand. She
would never say anything about how it was shaking, but she would say, “Why
do you ﬁght them Gary? You don’t need to ﬁght them. You’ve got enough.
Why don’t you just leave?”
She was wrong there. It’s never enough. And I’d never leave. Not if it
meant letting them win.
14
MY SECOND THREE MONTHS OF sick leave was approaching its end, and I was
pretty sure it would get extended again. I was deﬁnitely still good and sick.
But a week before I was due to see the doctor, I got an email from Kyle
Zimmerman.
Kyle Zimmerman was an American, and the head of HR in the Tokyo
oﬃce—the Icicle’s boss. He was small and he looked like a rat. That
reminded me of me, at that time of my life. I felt that that made things more
fair.
His email explained, in great detail, a legal technicality, referring to the
money I was owed. It came with an awful lot of paperwork, but the summary
was quite clearly made.
A sabbatical from the oﬃce, for more than six months, meant the money,
in its entirety, would be canceled.
I wouldn’t really have called it a sabbatical, but I don’t think that anyone
cared.
I went in and I spoke to the doctor. He was very clear: I shouldn’t go back.
I told him it wasn’t really up to me. I had to go, I had no choice.
He put his hand on my shoulder then, when he spoke to me, which is a
very rare thing for Japanese people to do. He looked at me, for a while,
before speaking.
“I suppose, then, that it can’t be helped.”
—Wizard came to Tokyo. I told her that I had to go back.
I could see that she could see that I was scared, and I could also see that
she was hurt.
“Don’t go,” she said. “Just don’t do it.”
In her green eyes, there, we both could see it. Me not sleeping, me losing
more weight.
“It’s not about that Wizard, it’s not an option. It’s something that I have to
do.”
“You don’t have to do it, you’re choosing to do it! You don’t have to do any
of this! You’ve got enough! You could leave at any moment! Why are you
doing this to yourself!?”
“It doesn’t matter. It doesn’t matter what I do to myself. This is something
that I have to do.”
She looked at me and she looked like she was going to cry. But she didn’t
cry, and she pursed her lips and she didn’t say whatever it was that she was
going to say. I’ll probably always wonder what she would have said.
I broke up with her later that day. A week later I went back to work.
—
The day before I went back into the oﬃce, a strange thing happened. I was
eating at a restaurant that was at the top of my building. I didn’t live in the
sky in the Prudential Tower anymore. By this time, I had moved to another
area called Atago, which has a tiny shrine at the top of a hill, up a tall ﬂight of
very steep stairs. A samurai rode his horse up the stairs one time, to deliver
plum blossoms. It took him forty-ﬁve minutes to get down.
In my new building I was no longer on the thirtieth ﬂoor. I was on the
eighth ﬂoor, which is still high, but my new apartment faced up a hill, over a
graveyard, which meant that, from my window, I could see the very tops of
trees. I liked that a lot.
It was a fancy corporate apartment building that I lived in, and there was a
private restaurant on the top ﬂoor. The prices were surprisingly reasonable,
and I would eat there quite often, if I was awake for its opening hours.I would always get the same thing: a little salmon, avocado, rice bowl thing
they did, that came with an umeboshi, which is the sourest and most delicious
circular food in the world. It was so sour that every time I ate it, my face
would twist up from the sourness, and there was a Japanese waitress there, in
her late twenties or very early thirties, who thought it was very funny.
The day before I went back into the oﬃce, late in the evening, after eating
in the restaurant, I noticed a little, hand-written letter had been placed under
my door. All it said was,
You looked very sad in the restaurant. I hope everything’s OK. If you need
someone to talk to you can message me at this address. Maki.
The next day I went back to work.
15
BY THIS POINT, SIX MONTHS into my sick leave, nobody called me anymore.
Caleb didn’t call me, the Slug didn’t call me. There were no more
management meetings.
I had ﬁrmly passed into the realm of HR now. Kyle Zimmerman; HR’s
super-rat. The Icicle, it seemed, had been removed from the board; a skillful
take, I thought, on my part.
One of the earliest pieces of advice that Billy had given me was that
“Talking to HR is never a good thing.” I’d deﬁnitely fucked that one up.
Kyle Zimmerman’s oﬃce was in the corner of the small HR department. I
had to walk through the department to get there and I tried to make eye
contact with the Icicle, but she never looked up the whole time.
The oﬃce was small, with a window, and orderly. Filing cabinets spanned
the length of one wall. The desk was sparse, with little ornamentation. One
notepad, one expensive pen. There was life in Kyle’s eyes as I walked through
the door, and he smiled as he welcomed me in.
I was recording everything, of course, and I had considered shouting and
slinging accusations, in the hope of eliciting some sort of admission or slip, as
I had tried doing with Caleb. But I was too curious to know what their plan
was, so I listened. Surely they couldn’t put me back on STIRT?
Kyle spoke with a smooth animation. Eﬃciency paired with élan. He was
glad to see that I’d recovered. That was quite funny, and I quite nearly
laughed. He was delighted to say they’d found me a new role. That was reallyquite funny as well. I enjoyed the dark style of Kyle Zimmerman, I wished
he’d been in more meetings.
Kyle took me upstairs and led me out onto the trading ﬂoor. I can’t lie, my
heart skipped a beat. I could see everyone, especially, back there in the far
corner, Caleb’s lumbering frame.
The STIRT desk was directly in front of me, but we didn’t go there.
Instead, Kyle led me right, and then right again. Round a corner, past the
printers, and into a nook. That’s where I met Gerald Gunt.
Gerald Gunt was, without a doubt, the most boring man that I have ever
met, on a trading ﬂoor or anywhere else. He was a man who wore glasses
more alive than his eyes, with a soul that seemed yearning for death.
Really, I thought, I know I’m not at my best, but really, now…Me against
him!? I felt the blood back in my ﬁngers, again. I thought: here’s a game I can
win.
I was quite a little while without wins by that time, so the thought brought
some small cheer to me. I reached out and I took his hand tightly.
“Hello Gerald, my name is Gary.”
—
The decision had been made to move me into “Business Management.” Don’t
ask me what Business Management is; I didn’t know then and I still don’t
know now. All I know is it’s Gerald’s department. They did spreadsheets.
They did paperwork.
Gerald didn’t smile. I have never once seen Gerald smile. But he looked to
the ground, and he pushed his glasses up the bridge of his nose. He levered
himself from his chair slowly, with what seemed to be his very last reserves
of willpower. He started to walk, and I followed him, to the most depressing
oﬃce in the world.
The only light in Gerald Gunt’s oﬃce came from a single and sickly-blue
halogen bulb, which buzzed and sputtered its death throes on the wall. The
ceiling light was broken. Weren’t we all?Gerald Gunt spoke in tones that were long and wide-drawn and
monotonous. There was a boringness to his voice that was so extreme that it
bordered on intensity. It had a mournfulness; deep, like an echo; like the
moans of a lost, lonely whale.
He was explaining my job to me. I wasn’t listening. I was looking all
around the room. This must be the room that you wait in when you’re going
to hell but there’s some sort of administrative delay. It was completely devoid
of ornament or decoration, excepting one, single, personal touch. There, on
the desk, was a single framed photo, of Gerald, and, presumably, his wife.
His wife looked young in the picture. Maybe in her mid-twenties. She was
Japanese, and she was very pretty. She was smiling. He was smiling too. He
must have been a similar age himself, in the photo. God, how old must he be
now? It was impossible to say. What happened, Gerald? What happened to
you Gerald? Where did you go? Did you take a wrong turn?
I don’t know how long I sat in that oﬃce and looked at that photo, but it
must have been a long time, because Gerald was ﬁnished. I smiled at him,
genuinely and deeply, and I tried my best to crush his hand.
—
I had gathered not one single thing from Gerald’s monologue about the work I
was supposed to be doing. I had, in fact, recorded the entire thing, but I never
listened to it again in my whole life, due to a great fear of it aging me by
several years.
As such, it was, from an administrative perspective at least, something of a
relief when Gerald followed up our meeting with an email outlining my work.
It was long, arduous, detailed, spreadsheet work, which made sense
entirely, for Gerald was a long, arduous, detailed, spreadsheet man. From my
brief scan of his email, the quantity of the work he had assigned me was
enormous. It would take several weeks, if not months.
This was it. After all my fear of returning, after all that trepidation, this
was all they had. This was all that they fucking had. Putting me in the corner,
next to the recycling bins, and trying to get me to write lines on Excel like apermanent fucking detention. And they were paying me one hundred and
twenty fucking grand a year for that. Well, fuck that. I’ve had a lot of
detentions in my lifetime, they never once stopped me being a dick.
I opened a new sheet on Microsoft Excel, and did the whole thing in
ﬁfteen minutes.
Two weeks later, Gerald called me into his oﬃce, and he asked to see my
spreadsheet. I had been looking forward to this.
I had emailed it to him, in advance of the meeting.
He opened it, and was completely baﬄed.
“What is this? Where is it? Is this all that you’ve done?”
I caught the dull gray of his eyes and I smiled.
“Yes Gerald, that’s all that I’ve done.”
“But nothing’s here! None of the work’s here!”
I furrowed my brow and I scratched my hair. That was, indeed, quite
concerning.
“I’m sorry Gerald…Are you sure there’s a problem? I’m sure that’s what
you asked me to do!”
One more smile, and Gerald was defeated. The meek shall inherit the
earth.
—
Gerald never once gave me a single piece of work to do after that. Nobody
did.
In fact, nobody spoke to me at all, ever. And I had absolutely nothing to
do. On very rare occasions, when he was sure nobody was looking, Kousuke
would sneak by and leave an onigiri on my desk or something. There was a
long corridor between the trading ﬂoor and the bathroom, and sometimes I
would see Caleb coming toward me in the opposite direction as I went to or
returned from brushing my teeth, and he’d always suddenly pretend he’d
forgotten his passcard or something and turn back.
Once I felt I knew how the land lay, I emailed Kyle and asked him how
many holiday days I had accumulated.I had not taken a lot of holidays over my career as a trader, really not a lot.
And of course, the previous six months had been sick leave with no oﬃcial
holidays. He told me I had over ﬁfty days accumulated, so I posted the next
six weeks oﬀ work.
—
It was autumn now, and I traveled. I had already been to Kyoto, many times,
with Wizard, so I decided to go further, to Hiroshima, where they put noodles
in the okonomiyaki.
I hadn’t been expecting the return to the bank to be so easy. In my mind
the police would have been there, or something, with lawyers to take me
straight to jail. I hadn’t expected a well-paid job, with absolutely no work,
and with convenient access to the printers. What did it mean?
Did it mean they really didn’t have anything on me? Had they looked and
found nothing to ﬁnd?
I went to the English Language Conversation Café in Takadanobaba many
times, and I spoke to many, many people. Often I spoke to Japanese people,
but the café also served as a hub for miscreants and wandering reprobates
from every corner of the earth. One time I found myself drinking tea for
several hours with a middle-aged Dutchman with sandy brown hair and a
towering nose. He’d met a Japanese girl when he was young; they’d gotten
married; they divorced. He had become a priest, and he stayed.
I found myself talking and talking, and the whole of my story spilled out.
I’d never told anyone the whole story; I’d never told anyone I was a
millionaire. I probably talked for over an hour, while the Dutch priest nodded
and sipped a few beers. Eventually, I ﬁnished, and I waited, and he said,
“Fock man. That’s pretty focked op.”
—
My sister came to visit and, since I had really liked the place, I took her back
to Hiroshima, and to the holy island of Miyajima, which is also called
Itsukshima, where the huge, red torii gate stands in the sea, and I strippeddown and swam through the torii gate, and when the sun went down we fed
the deer.
My sister asked how work was going, so I showed her some pictures I’d
drawn, on my desk, in the oﬃce. One was of John Lennon, one was of Paul
McCartney.
I hadn’t really explained my work situation to my sister and she squinted at
the pictures and then squinted at me, and then she asked me if I was OK. I
laughed and said, “Yeah Debz, I’m always OK.”
And she laughed, because she knew it was true.
—
When I went back to the oﬃce, in late autumn, early winter, I devoted myself
full time to studying Japanese, studying kanji (the little, originally Chinese,
pictorial characters from which Japanese is written) and drawing pictures of
the Beatles.
My drawing actually got pretty good. At one point, a junior staﬀ member,
who presumably did not know the details or history of my extended detention,
passed my desk and noticed my work.
“Hey! That’s really good! It’s Ringo Starr, right?”
“Thank you. Yes it is.”
“That’s really good! You’re really good, man! What is it for?”
“I’m not really sure, to be honest…I guess maybe something like…
Creative development? I’m trying to make it look like this photo.”
And I showed him the source photo. He looked a little confused.
“Yes…but…What’s it for, you know? How do we use it?”
I didn’t say anything. I was also confused by this question, and we shared a
brief, intimate, mutual confusion. After a little while, he started to nod and
slowly backed away.
—
After a few weeks of this, I started to realize that, due to having no actual
work, I had quite a lot of spare time, and so, after a meeting with all of thepeople in the oﬃce who were speaking to me, which was no one, we
unanimously agreed that I should reduce my working hours to one or two
hours a day.
I would come in at about ten and start studying or drawing. Sometimes I
would have paperwork from my lawyers, which I would print on the printers
that were conveniently nearby. At about twelve I would go and get lunch, and
then I’d go straight home. My favorite place to get lunch was Kikanbou
Karashibi Ramen in Kanda, where white-shirted salarymen would sweat
profusely whilst eating insanely spicy ramen in a small, smoky, dimly lit
room, which was covered with red demon masks. The spicy ramen would
make me really tired, and get me ready for a really good nap.
I did that for another few weeks. In the evenings I would go to the
conversation café, and on the weekends I would meet up with this Japanese
girl who worked as a waitress in the Beatles Bar in Roppongi. She was cute,
and she didn’t speak any English, and my Japanese was getting a lot better.
She used to come to my big corporate apartment, and sit on the ﬂoor instead
of the sofa. One day, she turned round and she said to me, “Hey, how do you
aﬀord this place when you hardly ever work?”
Gradually, I started to wonder if I might have found the best job in the
world.
16
IN DECEMBER OF 2013 KYLE called me into his oﬃce. I was hoping that I might
be ﬁred, which would have been the ultimate victory.
Kyle sat me down in a chair and he did that smile. Such a wonderful smile
for a rat.
“How’s work going?” he asked.
“Yes, it’s wonderful. My work’s really wonderful. How’s yours?”
“Yes, it’s good. Yes, it’s good.” He stopped smiling. “Why haven’t you
applied for the charity route?”
“The charity route?”
“Yes, the charity route. The Icicle said that you’d like to apply.”
“Oh! The charity route! Yes, that is true. I’d very much like to apply.”
“That’s very nice, so why have you not applied?”
“Well, you know…I’ve just got so much work…”
“What kind of work is it, Gary, that you’re doing?”
“I’m not quite sure you’d understand it Kyle…You know, it is very
creative.”
He smiled again and turned to his computer. He sent me the documents to
leave.
—
As you might imagine, I was very pleased with that development. The door
was there, I just had to walk through.But, did I want to leave?
Listen, looking back, in hindsight, I can see that my situation was not
particularly healthy. I was not, strictly speaking, a free man, and I was in
constant fear of being sued. Senior management would occasionally glare at
me, and I, being sensible, had to submit and resist glaring back.
That pained me, but, in a way, really, my quality of life was really quite
good. I was kind of getting my ﬁrst Japanese girlfriend, my Japanese was
coming on a storm, I’d made quite a lot of half-friends now from the
conversation café, and I had a list of restaurants you wouldn’t believe. Plus,
you know, Christmas was coming. I decided to give it some time.
—
The Japanese are not great at Christmas; they confuse Santa with the KFC
man. A group of madmen from the conversation café went to karaoke to
celebrate.
I still didn’t like karaoke. I’m not actually that bad a singer, but I used to
get really self-conscious. An old Japanese man named Hiroshi, in his sixties
with a proud head of white hair, sat me down after I sang my song.
“You know, in karaoke, it doesn’t matter if you sing well or sing badly.
What matters is, your guests have a good time.”
After that, I enjoyed karaoke much better. Maybe that, too, is a lesson for
life.
—
For New Year’s Eve, at midnight, I went with a group of people from the
café, to Hanazono Jinja, to pay my respects.
Paying your respects at a shrine at midnight on New Year’s Eve is a
Japanese tradition, and long, long queues form in the cold and the dark. Some
people wear traditional dress.
The old shrine of Hanazono Jinja is in Kabukicho, which is Tokyo’s
biggest red-light district. The drinking area is there, Shinjuku Golden Gai,with the tiny, tiny bars for professional drunks, and all around, in every
direction, is alcohol, sex and great food.
Those bars were really the place where I learned Japanese, especially my
favorite one, the shabby, rundown, but always warm and welcoming
“Kangaroo Court Decision.” When I went there, I would always order shochu
with grapefruit. Eventually, they’d run out of grapefruit, so I’d gradually get
more and more shochu in my drinks, until they’d run out of grapefruit
completely and the owner would have to run to 7-Eleven to buy more.
We queued up for a long time, at Hanazono Jinja, me and my half-friends
from the café. Usually, Japanese people spend New Year’s Eve with their
families, so all of us there, at the Jinja, were the same on that night: cold
people with no families.
I got to the front. I threw a little golden ﬁve-yen coin into a little wooden
box, and it bounced around a few times before it slipped in. Metal on wood. I
grabbed the thick, heavy rope, and I shook it, and the bell rang with a tinny,
rattling sound. I bowed, twice, I clapped, twice, I waited. Suddenly, there, in
that moment, I felt the cold air come into my lungs again. A cold, wet,
midnight kind of air. This time, though, it didn’t burn me.
“I guess then it’s time to go home.”
—
It took me till about the end of January to get my paperwork together. If I’m
honest, I didn’t rush it. That charity had oﬀered me a job. They were an
American charity, but they said I could work from London, writing about
inequality. The global economy had continued its slow-motion collapse all of
this time; same old no growth, falling living standards, though it was easy to
forget that, from Japan. Sometimes I wondered if they’d kept my old trades
on, or if they had closed them all out. They really should have kept them, but
I guessed that they hadn’t. For some reason, the paperwork package to leave
and go to charity was enormous. I waded through it all and applied.
I didn’t get a reply until a month later, by email.
“Your application has been rejected.”I suppose that you might have reacted to that in the same way I did at the
time.
“Why the fuck did they ask me to apply then?”
It’s a stupid question, because the answer was obvious. They did it to show
me I was trapped.
They did it to show me that, sure, if I wanted, I could eat all the gyoza in
fucking Tokyo. I could cycle around the city for months on end, and I could
cavort with local Beatles fans and I could ring bells on New Year’s Eve and
swim through historical shrines. I could do all of that, if I wanted. But I
couldn’t leave. I couldn’t go home.
How long would it take me to get all the money out? Three more years? I’d
be thirty by then. Nah, fuck that. Fuck that man. Fuck ’em. What would have
even been the point of the game?
I hit the red button on my recorder, which I had on me at all times, I
slipped it back into my pocket, and I stormed right down to Kyle
unannounced.
“What the fuck are you doing!?”
Kyle was so happy. It almost made me happy as well.
“Gary! It’s so good to see you! Do we have a meeting? Take a seat.”
I sat down.
“What the fuck are you doing?”
“What do you mean, Gary? What is this all about?”
“You know what this is fucking about! What the fuck are you doing?”
“I’m sorry Gary, but I don’t know what this is about. I don’t think this
meeting was prearranged. Is there some problem? What’s happened?”
“Why did you reject the charity application?”
“Ohhh the charity application!” He smiled and leaned into his chair. “I see
now, you’ve come about that. What’s the problem?”
“Why did you reject it?”
“Well now let me see.”
He turned to his computer, whose screen I of course could not see, and he
spent some time looking at it. He was humming a gay tune which I didn’t
recognize. I wondered if it was Japanese.“OK, I’ve got it. Unfortunately, the charity that you’ve applied for is not an
oﬃcially registered charity in the US. It doesn’t meet the criteria.
Unfortunately, you can’t work for them. I’m sorry.”
We stared and again he was smiling. That wonderful smile for a rat.
“I know what you’re fucking doing.”
“I’m sorry, I don’t know what you mean.”
“You lied to me, and the Icicle lied to me, and Caleb lied to me as well.
And the Icicle spoke to Caleb about conﬁdential meetings, and that was
illegal. What do you think about that?”
“I’m sorry, Gary, I don’t know about any of this. What is this that you’re
talking about?”
“You fucking know what I’m talking about, you fucking know it! You’ve
been fucking colluding from the fucking start and you know you’ve been
doing it, what the fuck do you think about that?”
There was no way. There was no way to catch him. To anger him, to draw
him out. He loved it, he absolutely fucking loved it. Like a pig, he delighted
in shit.
“I’m sorry Gary, I really am sorry, but I really don’t know what you mean.”
It really was a beautiful smile he had. I swear that fucker nearly winked.
—
There was nothing to do. I went back to my desk and I requested, by email,
the oﬃcial Citibank HR deﬁnition of whatever the fuck a fucking charity was.
They didn’t reply for three weeks. I broke up with the Japanese girl that
weekend. I wasn’t having another fucking girl watch me with tears in her eyes
as my life turned to ashes and bone. I started running around the palace again.
Get all the fat oﬀ, all the fucking fat oﬀ. Cut all the fat oﬀ that isn’t even
there. Cut oﬀ everything that you don’t need.
What would it mean if I couldn’t get out? What would I do? Would I sue
the fucking bank? Would I just sit around on the trading ﬂoor for another
three years, like the fucking ghost of Christmas Past? What would I turninto? What would I become? Would I give up? Turn back? Become Caleb?
Would I grow old and gray like Gerald Gunt?
My sleep got fucked up almost immediately, and again I was a creature of
night. It was the back end of winter then and the nights were still real cold,
and I was ﬂying round in that cold and the neon with icy breath, on my
bicycle looking for food.
It was round about then that the police stole the bicycle.
No one steals anything in Japan. No one steals fucking anything. You can
throw your wallet on the ground and come back three days later and it won’t
even have lost any cash. But the police will steal your bike so you best
fucking watch it. Don’t park it in front of the station.
I asked the reception at my building how to get my bicycle back from the
police. They gave me an address and I went there. I had to take the fucking
train.
When I got there, I had arrived at what surely must have been, with
absolute certainty, the biggest bicycle impound in the world. I have never
seen, couldn’t even imagine, so many bicycles in one fucking place. A world,
a universe, made of bicycles. There can surely, in the entirety of history, have
never been a more voracious bicycle thief than the Tokyo police. I guess they
have to do something with their time.
They took me to my bicycle. How the fuck they knew where it was
precisely was a miracle of modern engineering. It took ﬁfteen minutes just to
walk there.
The wheel was broken. I’m not quite sure how. I tried to get it ﬁxed but it
was a stupid fucking custom size or something and ﬁxing it was impossible.
I’d have to get a brand new one custom made. I had, at that point in my life,
had that bicycle for longer than I’d ever had a girlfriend. It was the single
thing I had ﬂown over from London. It was the closest thing I had to an old
friend.
I took the bicycle and I left it outside the station. The same station where I
had fucking lost it. There you go Tokyo police, here’s some work for you,
steal it again. Then I went to an old, second-hand bike store in a quiet,
residential area round the back of Yoyogi Park, close to where Caleb used tolive. There was a creaky, old, bent-over man in there, and I asked him in
Japanese to show me the cheapest bike they had in the shop.
He took me to this tiny, comedy, yellow “mama-chari,” with a little basket
and a bell. I tried to ring the bell. It was slightly broken. Weren’t we all. I
asked him how much it was and he said ﬁve thousand yen, which at that time
was about £30. I gave him the money and I cycled it home. Sometimes in life
you lose your old friends.
—
Spring 2014. Cherry blossom, and the world’s slowest battle of emails.
Citibank took three weeks just to tell me what their deﬁnition of a charity
was. It was a deﬁnition which, I was virtually certain, was satisﬁed by my
charity. I had to get all the little bits of paperwork together to make this
absolutely crystal clear, and send them back to Kyle Zimmerman. He didn’t
reply to that for a month. Apparently, on that second application, I’d signed
one page, page thirty-six or something, in the wrong fucking place.
It was pretty clear what they were doing, and it was clear it could last a
long time. I wondered if it would go on forever, and if they would just keep
paying me to sit in Gunt’s corner. The blossoms then started to fall.
My mental state deteriorated relatively quickly. Ever since that meeting
with the Icicle, when she’d told me there’d been nothing to stop me from
leaving, I’d felt that I had an escape rope. It was true, sure, that I’d never
known quite how sturdy a rope it had been, but I’d always known that it was
there. With that assurance, I had felt that, for the ﬁrst time in a long time, I
could breathe a little, away from the wolves. But now I was back, on the
trading ﬂoor, and it seemed that I couldn’t get out.
I started to spend more time in the oﬃce, even though there was little to
do. I couldn’t enjoy the things that I had previously been doing, so in my free
time all I did was run. The cherry blossoms were all gone from the trees, and
again, rainy season began.
It was then that Citibank made their next move. They canceled my
housing.—
Since I’d been in Japan, Citi had been paying for my housing. This is pretty
normal for banking expats in Japan, and a big housing allowance, combined
with the big salary that I was still getting, was supposed to have been one of
my big inducements to move.
I liked the apartment that I lived in, with the view of the graveyard from
the balcony, and the restaurant with the umeboshis at the top. If I leaned over
and craned my head, from the balcony, I could just about see Tokyo Tower,
and that restaurant, up on the forty-second ﬂoor, was a good place for people-
watching. One time I had watched an American banker talk to a Japanese
man and his wife for an entire hour about the novel Moby-Dick without the
Japanese couple saying a single word the entire time. They spent the whole
time just humming and nodding. As the banker walked out he had smiled
broadly and nodded at me, while behind him, just over his shoulder, the
Japanese man had his head in his hands.
In the evenings, the restaurant was usually empty, and, in summer, which
was ﬁrework season, I’d sometimes watch the ﬁreworks, out in the distance,
over Tokyo Bay, from up in the dark restaurant, alone.
No more ﬁreworks, for me, I guessed. The rent was really expensive and if
the bank weren’t paying for it and I was leaving the industry I could probably
only aﬀord to pay it for two months. I knew that I was totally fucked by this
point, and probably wouldn’t be able to work again for years. I had started to
budget on the assumption that I would never be ﬁt and healthy enough to
work again, possibly for the rest of my life.
I had a friend, a guy from Romford, in Essex, which is not far from where
I grew up, who had moved to Japan with the express purpose of becoming a
stuntman for Power Rangers movies. It had been his childhood dream. He
rented a shabby room in a shabby apartment in the Korean town of Shin-
Okubo, which is the closest thing that central Tokyo has to a ghetto, and was
close to our English-language café, where he worked. I texted asking if I
could start sleeping on his ﬂoor. He said “Yeah, of course man. No problem.”I wondered if Citibank were gonna keep hitting me like this, with stupid
random shit till I gave up and walked. Fine, then, I thought, let them hit me. I
won’t give up. They won’t be the ﬁrst.
17
IT WAS VERY HOT, AND very wet, after that, and I started, once more, to go mad.
I was very sick of sitting and waiting, so I decided to try something new.
I started to email people, lots of people, a diﬀerent person every day. I
emailed the CEO, several times, I emailed the Global Head of HR. These
strategies were neither suggested nor approved by my lawyers. They were my
own little creative touch.
I can’t really remember what I said in these emails. Sometimes I’d refer to
their recipients by stylish and innovative nicknames I’d made up, or talk
vaguely about cryptic things. At times, I would talk speciﬁcally, about the
things that Caleb and the Icicle and Kyle Zimmerman had done. Sometimes I
would hint darkly that those things would look terrible if they appeared in the
newspapers. At other times I would try a bright levity, and tell humorous
anecdotes, or talk about food. I learned that the Global Head of HR was a
Mormon, so I’d intersperse his emails with little woven snippets of Mormon
scripture. I thought that was a very nice touch.
After about two weeks of that, at the very hottest peak of the summer,
Kyle Zimmerman called me into his oﬃce.
I knew that Kyle Zimmerman would be happy to see me. He always was.
Kyle’s oﬃce was very familiar to me by this point, and I noticed that he
had added a family photo to his own desk. I could now see that Kyle’s wife,
like Gerald’s, was also Japanese, and he had three children who, I supposed,
must have been half Japanese. Upon entering the oﬃce, I bent at the waistand I looked at this photo closely for a very, very, very long time. It was only
then that I looked up at Kyle.
Kyle looked diﬀerent. As always, he was smiling. But not with his mouth
—with his eyes.
This was not right: a total inversion. Kyle Zimmerman was upside down.
This captivated me, and I sat down before him, and for a while, we didn’t
talk, we just looked.
After that, we had a long conversation, and in that conversation, everything
changed.
Now, there are times in stories, as in life, where things happen of which
we can’t speak. We all know them: they’ve happened to you, as to me.
There are a variety of reasons for which this can happen. Maybe we
cannot betray the trust, or the memory of another—a lover, a very close
friend. Maybe the emotions are so deep to us, that they cannot be spoken,
cannot be named.
At other times, the reasons we cannot speak come not from the heart, but
the head. This is why we don’t tell our mothers, when we make four hundred
thousand pounds.
And other times still, those reasons are not internal, but external.
Sometimes society takes our names onto paper, and it takes that paper and it
rolls it up into a ball, and then that ball it stuﬀs into our mouths.
Which of these happened to me? Did any?
The answer to that, I can’t tell you. I’m sorry, honestly, I am. I suppose
when we cut ropes that bind us, sometimes we also cut our skin.
I will never forget how happy Kyle looked at the end of that meeting. Not
fake happy, not make-believe happy. He was really, honestly, genuinely
happy. He shook my hand and I saw pride in his face, like a father who was
proud of his son.
Fuck you, I thought, you’re a fucking rat. A fucking rat, you are, just like
me.
And then, that was it, I was free.
18
HOW DID I WIN? HOW did I win that battle?
I would like to tell you it’s because I was crazy. Because I was smart and
because I was brave. Furthermore, because I was original; because I was
creative and wild. That I stepped outside the artiﬁcial constraints that bound
me, and decided to go totally mad.
But I don’t know. It probably wasn’t that.
A week before I was set free, at exactly the same time that I was sending
insane emails to C-level management, the Slug was ﬁred. I’m not sure why. I
would like to think that I was at least one of the reasons, but, again, that
probably isn’t true.
I am reliably informed, from several sources, that after the Slug was ﬁred,
he arranged a video call with all of Citibank Global Sales and Trading, and
that on that conference call, he thanked everyone with heartfelt emotion, for
all of the work that they had done beneath him, and that then, after that, he
broke down in tears. Right there on the call. In front of everyone. All of
senior management were on that call, and each one of them, every one of
whom hated the man, wiped a cold, mournful tear from his eye.
The conﬂuence of these two separate occurrences—the Slug’s ﬁring and
my personal descent to a new layer of insanity—mean that I have no way of
knowing who won my freedom. Was it me? Or was it the Slug?
The Slug had always been the kindly ﬁgure in my meetings, and for that
reason, I, perhaps somewhat naively, assumed that it had been Caleb, not the
Slug, who had been keeping me at the bank, paying me a £120,000 yearlyannual salary, plus housing, for no reason other than to publicly humiliate me,
and, perhaps, to prevent me from completing, more fully, the escape that had
slipped from his hands.
But maybe I was wrong. Perhaps it never was Caleb. Perhaps it really had
all been an act. Perhaps it had been the Slug, after all, keeping me there, and
once he’d left, Caleb just let me go.
I do not know. I will never know. I will never know how I won the game.
But it’s like that, isn’t it? You never really know how much is luck and how
much is skill, do you? Perhaps if that Russian linesman, who wasn’t even
really Russian, didn’t give that goal that day, in 1966, then England never win
the World Cup. Perhaps if John Terry, who was born where I was born, does
not slip in the Champions League Final that evening in Moscow, then Avram
Grant is the greatest manager in the world. Perhaps if that day, back in
October 2002, Ilford County High School had called the police on me, I
would have gotten a criminal record, and I would have been one of those boys
with no options, selling drugs on street corners, forever, and none of any of
this would ever have happened. You never know, do you? How much is luck
and how much is skill?
Maybe I did outplay Citibank, maybe I outmaneuvered them. Maybe I
really did play a great game. Or maybe I didn’t do any of that. Maybe I just
kept getting up, like handsome Paul Newman, and kept getting punched in
the face. How do we ever know which of our wins, and which of our losses,
were from luck, and which ones were from skill?
And trading is like that, too, isn’t it? Sure, I made money in 2011, and
2012, by betting on the collapse of the global economy, the slow but constant
and certain collapse of living standards for ordinary people, for ordinary
families, the descent of hundreds of millions of families across the world into
inescapable poverty, and sure that did actually happen, in the real world, but,
in the end, does that mean I was right?
And sure, I did continue betting on those things, almost every year, from
my sofa, from my bedroom, until now, until 2023, and sure, it did continue to
happen, and sure more and more families now fall into ever-worseningpoverty every year, and can’t pay their mortgages and can’t feed their
children. But is that skill, or is that just luck?
We don’t know, do we? And maybe we’ll never know. So what, in that
case, do we do? Do we let it happen or do we stop it from happening? Do we
close our eyes and say, it’s just a game? Do we tell ourselves that it is just
luck?
For after all, the wealthy economists, with their small hearts and smart
suits and even smarter accents, are conﬁdent that they’re right, as well. They
are just as conﬁdent as I am, when they tell us that things will get better, that
our problems are just temporary. And, sure, they have been wrong, every
single year, since 2008, and sure, they and their class get richer and richer
while they do it, but still, couldn’t that be just luck?
There is no way of knowing, ever, is there? Who is right, and who is
wrong, or what we should do or whether we should change things. We just
have to wait and see, don’t we?
And maybe Arthur was right, also, when he said there’s nothing we can do.
Well, he didn’t say there was nothing that you could do, did he? We can do
something. You can do it too. We can bet on it. We can bet on the end of the
world. We can bet that interest rates will always be less than inﬂation; that the
economy will always collapse. That house prices and stock prices and gold
prices will go up, making the rich richer while wages stagnate and, in real
terms, collapse. We can do that, right? We can all do that. And if we do that,
then we can all get rich from it? Can’t we? As long as we’re lucky enough.
We can all of us get rich from the end of the world, but not stop it, just watch
it collapse.
You know, I had a friend when I was child. He didn’t have a father, he only
had a mother, and his family was much poorer than mine. His mother would
often skip meals, so that the children could eat, and she thought that my
friend, and his sisters, didn’t notice. But they did notice. I know. Because he
told me.
I don’t know, I suppose, games are like that. Sometimes you win and
sometimes you lose. And, you know, what’s more important than winning? I
don’t know. I can think of nothing.19
I TOLD KYLE TO GIVE me two weeks.
I don’t know why I asked for those two weeks. I suppose I wasn’t ready
yet. I hadn’t known that I would win my freedom that day. I needed a little
time to breathe it in.
I went into work every single day, in those two weeks, and I stayed in for
the full work hours. Well, my contracted hours, which were nine to ﬁve.
Why did I do that? I’m not sure. I think I just wanted to hear the sounds.
That Tokyo trading ﬂoor was not my trading ﬂoor, of course. It was not the
trading ﬂoor where I made my name. It is not the trading ﬂoor I see in my
dreams.
But still, though, it was a trading ﬂoor. It was a place where men compete
with each other, to try to make money, to try to be right, to try to be better
than one another and to buy ﬂats without doors but with rotating walls, and
where all of their dreams don’t come true. A place where young kids can still
come from nowhere, and suddenly be the best in the world, though they
almost never do, and where old rich men and young rich boys, alike, look
across at them, as they walk to the bathroom and think:
“Look at him, with his stupid shirt from Topman. What the fuck has he
got that I don’t?”
And, you know, as we’ve said, maybe they’re right, maybe the whole thing
was really just luck.
Sometimes, you know, I still hope it was luck. God knows if it wasn’t, the
future’s not good.—
And then it came, my ﬁnal day on the trading ﬂoor. I didn’t have to say many
goodbyes. I went to Florent Leboeuf, and we spoke and laughed a little about
his recent womanizing, and he said he’d get in touch next time he passed
through London. He never did.
And I went to the lunch connoisseurs, and we spoke a little about what
we’d been having for our lunches, and they said, “Oh Gary, your Japanese is
so good.”
And I went and spoke to Kousuke, lastly, and I thanked him so much for
everything, and he smiled and waved his hand right in front of his own nose
and he just said in Japanese, “That’s OK, that’s OK,” and after that I never
saw him again.
There was no applause when I walked oﬀ the trading ﬂoor, but this time I
did stop to look back, just once.
20
I WENT AND I UNLOCKED my little yellow bicycle. It was chained to a lamp post
by the side of the bank. I put my bag down and I unbuttoned my striped white
shirt, and I scrunched it up and I put it into the bag. It was very, very hot
outside, and I took out a little gray 7-Eleven vest, which had been a gift from
Wizard when she had ﬁrst arrived in Japan, and which always made the staﬀ
at 7-Eleven laugh, and I put it on, and I decided, this time, not to cycle home,
but instead to walk, one more time, through the Outer Garden of the Palace.
It took a fair while to walk home, and the sun shone down hard on my
skin. I walked my little yellow bicycle through the million identical trees, and
I tried to count them, but I kept getting distracted.
I wondered what it meant that I was leaving, and I wondered who was
right, and who was wrong.
Was the Frog right, that I would run out of money? That eventually I’d
come crawling back?
Was Arthur right, that there is nothing to do when the world is collapsing?
That we can do nothing but proﬁt and watch?
Was I right? That the economy would keep collapsing? That life would
just get worse and worse?
And what about the rest of us? Were any of us right? Was Chuck right, to
pile up his coins and get lost? Was Caleb right? To leave and come back.
What about JB, and Harry, and Snoopy? What were we doing? Were any of
us right?It was too much, and I couldn’t count any of the trees, I couldn’t number
them all up. And I could feel the sun burning the back of my neck and my
shoulders, and I thought maybe I should take out my shirt.
But then I thought, no, no, just leave it, because you never know when
you’ll come back.
So the sun of Japan burnt my shoulders, and I tried to stop thinking at all,
and I walked to the sound of cicadas, and I tried to taste the wet heat of the
air.
After that, I ﬂew back to London, to try to ﬁnd a game I couldn’t win.
And I thought, I don’t care if I win anymore, but I should really stop
playing alone.
Play this one with me.
Good Luck.
