1
IN SOME WAYS, I WAS born to be a trader.
At the end of the street I grew up on, in front of the tall, concave wall of a
recycling center, a lamp post and a telegraph pole stand four meters apart
from one another, forming the perfect set of impromptu goalposts.
If you stand between those two posts, take ten big steps backward and
stare upward and between them, into the far distance, the light of the tallest
Canary Wharf skyscraper will peek over that high wall, and wink at you.
After school, as a child, I would spend long evenings kicking battered
foam footballs in and around those goalposts, wearing battered school shoes
and my brother’s school uniform. When my mum would come and call me
home for dinner, I’d look back and watch that skyscraper wink at me. It
seemed to mean some sort of new life.
It wasn’t just the streets of East London I shared with those gleaming,
towering temples of capitalism. There was something else too, some kind of
shared belief. Something about money. Something about want.
The importance of money, and the knowledge that we didn’t have much of
it, was something I always felt deeply. In one of my earliest memories, my
parents gave me a pound coin, and sent me to the Esso garage to buy
lemonade. At some point in the trip, I dropped that pound coin, and lost it. In
my memory, I searched for that pound coin for what seemed like hours—
crawling under cars, scrabbling in the drains—be fore returning home, empty-
handed, and in ﬂoods of tears. In reality, it was probably only thirty minutes.But thirty minutes is a long time when you’re a child, I guess, and one pound
was a lot of money.
I don’t know if I ever really lost that love for money. Although, now, when
I look back and think about it, I’m not sure that love is the right word.
Perhaps, especially when I was a kid, I think it might have been more of a
fear. But whether it was fear, or a love, or a hunger, it only got stronger as I
started to grow, and I was always chasing those pounds I didn’t have. At
twelve, I started selling penny sweets in school; at thirteen, I started delivering
papers, 364 days a year, for £13 a week. By sixteen, my high school sales
business had become considerably more adventurous, more proﬁtable, and
more illicit. But those small kills were never really the end game, and every
evening, after the sun went down, I’d always look up at those skyscrapers,
winking down at me from the end of the street.
But there were many other ways in which I was not born to be a trader,
and those ways were and are, very important.
Because there are many, many, young, hungry, ambitious boys kicking
broken footballs around lamp posts and cars in the shadows of East London’s
skyscrapers. Many of them are smart, many of them are committed, almost
all of them would make all kinds of sacriﬁces to put on a tie and some
cuﬄinks and go walk into those tall, shiny towers of money. But if you step
onto those trading ﬂoors, which take pride of place in those glimmering
skyscrapers where young men earn millions of pounds every year in the heart
of what was once East London’s docklands, you will not hear the proud
accents of Millwall and Bow, of Stepney and Mile End and Shadwell and
Poplar. I know, because I worked on one of those trading ﬂoors. Someone
once asked me where my accent was from. He’d just graduated from Oxford.
The Citibank Tower in Canary Wharf has forty-two ﬂoors. In 2006, which
was the year I ﬁrst entered that building, it was the joint second-tallest
building in the UK. One day, in 2007, I decided to go up to the top ﬂoor of
the building, to see what the view was like, and to see if I could see my home.
The top ﬂoor of the Citibank Center was used only for conferences and
events. This meant that, when it was not in use, the entire space sat totally
empty. A vast, uninterrupted country of lush blue carpet, bordered on allsides by thick glass windows. I ﬂoated across the soundless carpet to the
window, but I couldn’t see the place where I lived. From the 42nd ﬂoor of the
Citibank Center, you cannot see East London. You can only see the 42nd
ﬂoor of the HSBC Tower. The ambitious young children of East London look
up to the skyscrapers that cast shadows on their houses, but the skyscrapers
don’t look back. They look at each other.
This is the story of how I, of all the kids playing football and selling sweets
in those shadows, got a job on the Citibank trading ﬂoor. It’s a story of how I
became Citibank’s most proﬁtable trader, in the whole world, and it’s a story
about why, after all of that, I quit.
These were the years when the global economy started to slip oﬀ the
precipice from which it’s still falling. At times, my sanity slipped with it. At
times it still does. God knows, I didn’t treat everyone the best. Harry, Wizard,
JB, myself. All the others who really should have had names. I hope you can
forgive me for telling your stories. They’re all part of my story, you know?
I’ll dedicate it to Anish’s grandad, who, when we were drunken teenagers,
and he was a drunken old man, would mutter to us endlessly the only sentence
that he knew well in English.
“Life is life. Game is a game.”
—
We never really ﬁgured out what it meant. I still hope that one day we will.
2
MY PATH TO THE TRADING ﬂoor began at the London School of Economics.
The London School of Economics is not really a normal university. With
no grand, leafy campus, the university buildings camouﬂage themselves as a
cluster of innocuous oﬃces, and secrete themselves down a side alley of
London’s West End.
In spite of these relatively innocuous surroundings, the global elite funnel
their children into the university with astonishing enthusiasm. It seemed that
no Russian oligarch, no Pakistani Air Force Commander, and no Chinese
Politburo member had missed the opportunity to send an ambitious son,
daughter, nephew or niece over to this unremarkable corner of central
London to study simultaneous equations for a few years, before ﬂying home
to take over the running of the mother country, perhaps with a few years
working at Goldman Sachs or Deloitte in between.
In 2005, when I arrived at the university to study Maths and Economics, I
was not a typical LSE student. Three years earlier, I had been expelled from
my high school for selling exactly £3-worth of cannabis. Before that, I had
tried to start a grime music collective; I had had a hoodie custom-made with
“MC Gaz” on the front and “Cadaverous Crew” in big, stylized letters on the
back. I turned up for my ﬁrst day of lectures in an Ecko tracksuit of matching
blue and white hoodie and jogging bottoms. The white hoodie had a big navy
blue rhino emblazoned on the front. I didn’t really have much idea, before I
got there, of anything about the university. But a kid at school had told methat a degree from the LSE was a one-way ticket to a big-money job in the
City, and that had been good enough for me.
Unsurprisingly, I didn’t really ﬁt in. The Russian oligarchs didn’t eat at
halal fried chicken shops. The Singaporeans didn’t understand my accent. To
save money, I was living with my parents, in Ilford, ten miles east of the
university. I had just gotten my ﬁrst proper girlfriend, who was also from
Ilford, and I spent the majority of my ﬁrst year drinking with her on park
benches, sneaking her out of my bedroom window and over the railway tracks
when my mum came home from work, and only really going to university for
lectures and classes.
Despite that, I was committed to doing well at the LSE. I didn’t have any
family connections, or any knowledge of the City. I wasn’t tall or handsome
and I didn’t have a nice suit or smooth networking skills. The most impressive
extracurriculars on my CV were an extremely uninspired career as a fast-
rapping grime MC and two years ﬂuﬃng pillows at the DFS sofa store in
Beckton. But maths had always come naturally to me, so, the way I saw it,
there was only one path for me into the City—be at all the Arab billionaires
and Chinese industrialists to a top ﬁrst class degree, and just pray to God that
Goldman Sachs noticed.
My plan to achieve this was relatively simple: sit at the front of every
lecture and class, and make sure I understood everything that every professor
and class teacher said.
The strategy worked pretty eﬀectively, and I ﬁnished the ﬁrst year of the
course with a decently high ﬁrst. If I’m being totally honest, I’d found it pretty
easy. I went away for the summer feeling as though my plan might just work.
But when I returned to the LSE for my second year, a couple of things had
markedly changed.
Firstly, suddenly, unprecedentedly, and seemingly apropos of nothing,
nearly every student in the entire year group had become an intensely studied
junior banker. I don’t mean to say that everyone had actually secured jobs in
the glittering skyscrapers of Canary Wharf or the City, but everyone, totally
unexpectedly, to me at least, began to behave as if they had. People started
attending Finance Society events on Wednesdays and Fridays, and networkingevents with the Investment Society on Mondays as well. They began to use
sentences consisting almost entirely of three-letter acronyms—ABS, IBD,
CDS, CDO, M&A—and talked about “Sales and Trading” and
“Securitization.” For some inexplicable reason, a large number of people
started to attend lectures wearing full business suits. Rumors began to abound
that various students, inevitably the tall, broad-chested, ﬁnely coiﬀed, suit-
wearing contingent of nationally-ambiguous-clearly-wealthy origin, had
already secured illustrious internships at Goldman Sachs, Deutsche Bank,
JPMorgan or Lehman Brothers. Some were even rumored to have gotten full-
time jobs.
All students started to apply for internships. Not just one or two
internships, but ﬁfteen or twenty, sometimes more. Theoretical interview
questions began to circulate among the student community, on the alleged
basis of having been put to a mythical student from the Statistics or
International Relations departments. It became generally accepted knowledge
that an interview candidate was likely to be asked how many bald people
there were in the state of Virginia. One student was allegedly given ﬁve
seconds to provide the answer to 49 times 49. All students diligently recorded
that it was, of course, 2,401. Inexplicably long queues began to form
spontaneously in unpredictable areas of the campus. Usually, most of the
queueing students would not be quite certain, when asked, what the queue
was actually for. But maybe, at the end of it, someone would get an
internship. Maybe there would be a networking opportunity. Large clusters of
twenty or so calculator-wielding students began to appear surrounding
computers in the library, barking out numbers and letters, communally
tackling Morgan Stanley’s online numerical tests as a group.
I had no idea how to react to this complete change in the attitude,
approach and priorities of the students surrounding me. Many had stopped
attending lectures altogether, so as to allow their time and energies to be
devoted more completely to the arts of networking, applying for jobs, and
learning the language and acronyms of the world of ﬁnance. My hitherto
successful-seeming strategy of simply turning up for lectures and classes, andfully understanding the course material, began to feel painfully insuﬃcient
and naive.
Perplexed, I turned to one of the few good friends that I had gathered in
my ﬁrst year of university: a tall, handsome, British-raised Slovenian boy
named Matic, who studied alongside me in the maths department. Whilst
Matic had not gone “full business suit,” like many of the other students, his
manner of dress had notably sharpened. He was a member of the ﬁnance
societies. He used acronyms. He made applications. He went for interviews.
He attended events.
I asked Matic what on earth could possibly have happened over the
summer to have wrought such a world-bending change in the student
community.
“What do you mean Gary? Don’t you know? Second year is internship
year!”
So here’s how it works. Or, at least, I’ll tell you now what Matic told me
then.
Everyone at LSE wants to work for Goldman Sachs. Or Deutsche Bank.
Or Morgan Stanley. Or JPMorgan. Or UBS.
Not just everyone at LSE, but everyone at Imperial. Also everybody at
Warwick. Of course everyone at Nottingham and Durham and Bath. And also
the people at Manchester and Birmingham want to work at those places, but
they have got no chance, well, unless they know someone in the industry, of
course. The people at Oxford and Cambridge want to work there too, at least
the ones who aren’t rich enough to never have to work.
There are not enough jobs for all of these people. Not even nearly enough.
Not only that, but not all jobs are made equal. The best job is “Sales and
Trading.” That job has the best hours (you only have to work twelve hours a
day, plus you get weekends oﬀ), and also you can make the money in the
quickest time, so long as you’re good. If you don’t get Sales and Trading, you
have to work in IBD or M&A or something working hundred-hour weeks
until your soul dies and then longer still. If you don’t make that you’ll have to
work in “Consulting.”I had literally no idea what consulting was. From the way that Matic said
the word, it might have been cleaning toilets.
There is no way to get a job without an internship, unless you’ve got
contacts, and the only time to get an internship is now. If you don’t get an
internship after second year, you’ll have to get an internship after third year.
After your internship, 50 percent of interns will get an oﬀer of a full-time job
a full year later, so if you interned after third year, you’d be facing a full year
of unemployment. But really, that’s just theoretical, because no investment
bank is going to hire an intern at the end of their third year—they’ll know
everyone rejected you in second year, and nobody’s going to want a rejected
intern.
“So that’s it. It’s make or break. It’s do or die. Your future will be decided
now. Forget about your “Maths and Economics.” You need to know what a
CDS is. What’s M&A? What’s IBD? How can you not know Gary? Everyone
knows! And you need to send applications. These internships are ridiculously
overapplied, and you don’t have any connections. Your only hope of getting
one is to apply to at least thirty banks. How many have you applied to so far?
None!?!”
None was the answer. I was lost.
I could do maths. I could do economics. But in this new world of
acronyms, I had nothing. I’d believed it when the teachers back at school had
told me: study hard and do well in your exams and you will get a good job. I
had been an idiot. I had been a fool.
Matic was a kindly guy, if a little intense, and he took pity on me. He took
me along to a ﬁnance society event titled “How to Get a Job at an Investment
Bank.”
The event, held in one of LSE’s grander, older, brighter lecture theaters,
was well attended. We were there for a talk given by a former investment
banker who looked as if he was taking time oﬀ from being an extra in a
Hollywood movie about Wall Street. All pinstripes and slicked-back hair and
height.
The talk seemed to me a stream-of-consciousness monologue on the
theme of hard work, with each sentence pockmarked by those words andacronyms that by now I was sure I had heard somewhere, but still didn’t quite
know the meaning of, as if it was being delivered in a language that I had
half-studied at high school and never quite fully learned. The speaker moved
constantly and rapidly across the stage and spoke with an unbelievable
intensity. The message I came away with was a pretty straightforward one:
read everything, know all of these acronyms and their meanings, network
everyone, apply everywhere, work always, don’t sleep. I’m not sure if that had
been exactly the message intended. I left the talk thoroughly depressed.
To Matic’s disappointment, and to some extent, my own I think, I gave up
on applying for internships. I couldn’t do it. I’ve never been good at
memorizing acronyms. It weighed just too much on my soul. Besides, the ﬁrst
stage of the application process was CV and cover letter. Everyone else had
been prepping for this since they were about four. They all seemed to have
trekked the Sahara, or led the Junior United Nations, or played the fucking
oboe at the Royal Albert Hall or some shit. My CV had six years of
delivering newspapers, one year as a failed grime rapper, and two years
ﬂuﬃng pillows at a sofa shop next to a sewage works in Beckton. What was
the point?
What saved me was the second change in my university experience, which
was equally unexpected and inexplicable. When I returned to uni for my
second year, people suddenly knew who I was. Students who I had never seen
before in my life, even sometimes from the clan of suit-wearers, would
approach me in the library and start talking to me. Once, a Chinese student
stopped me physically in a corridor, looked me up and down, angrily,
wordlessly, for approximately ten seconds, then said nothing, and just walked
away. Another time a tall European girl with an ambiguous accent and
fantastic hair asked to study with me. None of it made any sense.
In my confusion, I raised this mystery with my friend and fellow student
Sagar Malde, a tall, wiry Kenyan Indian boy with a wonderfully ﬂorid accent,
whose father owned the entire East African soap industry.
“Of course they know!” cried Sagar, as if it was obvious. “They know how
you did in your exams.”This answer didn’t quite explain the mystery. My results had been good,
but, as far as I was aware, they hadn’t been public, and besides, they were far
from the best in the university. Sagar himself, for example, had done
signiﬁcantly better than me.
“Of course, Gary,” he said kindly, when I put that to him, “but no one
expects that from you.”
Sagar was a lovely boy, we’re still good friends. But in that moment I was
genuinely shocked. I’ve always been good at maths, very good, since as far
back as I can remember. Everyone in my primary school knew I was good at
maths, everyone in my high school knew. I used to enter competitions every
now and again, and usually, I’d win. Teachers, family, friends all expected it
of me. I had always expected it of myself. Some people might have been
jealous of me, but no one had ever been surprised.
Sagar’s oﬀhand comment, though, made me realize something for the ﬁrst
time, something which had never even occurred to me before: a lot of rich
people expect poor people to be stupid. The LSE ﬁrst-year economics
lectures are enormous, with attendances of over a thousand students. By
sitting in the front row during those lectures, wearing a tracksuit and carrying
a Nike string backpack, and asking questions in a distinctively East London
accent, I had apparently advertised myself to those other, generally wealthier
students as a bit of fun, but not really a threat. My ﬁrst-year results had
turned things on their head.
I rolled it around in my head a bit, and I asked myself what should I do. I
decided, right then, that I’d show ’em: we’re not all stupid, us kids in
tracksuits. Yeah, I didn’t know what a CDS was, but I could do some maths if
I had to. We’ll show ’em, yeah we’re gonna show ’em. We’ll show those guys
what we can do.
So while everyone else was applying to thirty-seven investment banks, I set
about rather extravagantly showing everyone who would listen how good I
was at economics and, particularly, maths. For the ﬁrst time in my life, I
started to study in my spare time. I asked even more questions of the
lecturers. I started to challenge them when they made mistakes. I didn’t really
have any idea if or how it would ever lead me to a career, to be honest, but Iwasn’t really thinking too much about that, anymore. I just wanted them to
know they weren’t better than us. Because they’re not.
Anyway, one day this kind of strange thing happened. A gangly northern
kid from Grimsby, looking about six inches too tall with a thick mop of black
hair and a mussed-up business suit, wandered over to me in the library. His
name was Luke Blackwood, a fellow Maths student from the year above me.
“Are you Gary?” he asked me, and I told him I was.
“Listen, Citibank have an event next week. It’s called “The Trading
Game,” but it’s basically a maths game. If you win it, you can get invited to
the national ﬁnal, and if you win that you get an internship. I heard you’re
pretty good at maths. You should go.”
I had never met Luke before, but he sat down next to me, told me the date
and time of the competition, and brieﬂy explained to me the rules of the
game. I didn’t know anything about trading, but, as Luke said, I didn’t have
to: it was essentially a relatively simple maths game. After showing me how it
worked, Luke got up, and simply walked oﬀ, leaving me sitting in front of a
blinking computer and a few half-ﬁnished A4 pages of maths homework.
I don’t know why, maybe I was just cocky and overconﬁdent, but I was
immediately pretty sure I was going to win that game. I might not have known
anything about CDSs or CDOs or Asset Backed Securities, but I knew about
games, and I knew about maths. Here, it seemed to me, was ﬁnally a path into
the City that didn’t require me to have played the fucking oboe. Here, ﬁnally,
was a level playing ﬁeld, a real competition. And I knew it was one I could
win. I put away my textbooks and closed down my maths homework. I
opened up a spreadsheet and set about working out all of the maths of the
game.
—
The ﬁrst round of the Trading Game event was only a few days after my
conversation with Luke. It was only the second ﬁnance event that I’d ever
attended. It was a warm autumn evening and, although the game hadn’t been
advertised (or not that I’d seen anyway), a medium-sized queue snaked out ofone of LSE’s large oﬃce block buildings. The usual LSE-ﬁnance-society type
of queue: an international potpourri of Chinese, Russians and Pakistanis
alongside plenty more whose accents and outﬁts spoke more of trust funds
than any particular nationality.
I had an advantage over these people, and I knew it. I’d had the rules of the
game previously explained to me, and they hadn’t. That wasn’t fair, but life
isn’t fair. God knows these guys had had plenty of rules explained to them in
their lives that I was never going to know. It felt like the ﬁrst advantage I’d
ever had. I enjoyed that feeling as the queue ﬁltered in, a vibration in my
ﬁngers and toes.
The queue of hungry, young aspiring traders ﬁltered into a large, high-
ceilinged, windowless room, a lecture theater somewhere in the bowels of the
building, albeit one that I’d never seen before. We were split up into groups of
ﬁve and placed onto separate tables. A huge man stood, gleaming, in front of
a large ﬂip chart at the front of the room. This was the ﬁrst trader I had seen
in my life. That’s what a trader must look like then, I thought.
Once we were seated the trader explained the rules of the game. I, of
course, already knew the rules, so I had time to watch him as he spoke. He
moved around the room with a slow, decisive heaviness. He smiled unerringly
and scanned across the crowd with bright eyes, looking into each student one
at a time. A conﬁdence seemed to snake oﬀ of him, like smoke from a
candle, ﬂowing into the room. There was a kind of thick, sticky darkness to
it, but also a sharp, shiny brightness, like treacle inside a glass jar, and
alongside it that huge, never-ending, pearly white smile. Something about that
dark, sticky conﬁdence transported me back home again, to Ilford. To the
cool kids at school turned drug dealers making £10 into £100 by selling bags.
But there was a depth there that I’d not seen in Ilford. Something that I’d
started to see at LSE. The conﬁdence of a man who wins, not just today, but
tomorrow. That of a man who knows that he can’t lose. Somehow, even at
that early stage when I knew nothing of anything of trading, I felt it was
destined for me.
But still there’s a job to be done ﬁrst. I had a competition to win.And how was I going to do that? Well, ﬁrst you need to understand the
game.
The trading game was supposed to be a simulation of trading, but actually,
it was just a numbers game.
It ran using a special deck of seventeen numbered cards: some higher,
some lower. In case you ever want to play it yourself, the full deck of cards
was a -10, a 20, and all the numbers 1 through 15. Each player is dealt their
own card, which they could look at, and then another three cards are placed,
face down, in the center of the table. The game works by players essentially
making bets against each other on what will be the total numerical value of
the eight cards in the game (each of ﬁve players has one card, plus the three
in the middle).
Conceptually, you can think of it like this: you are all buying and selling
some asset and the total value of that asset is the sum of the cards in the
game. You only have certain information (your own card); more information
(the cards in the middle) is revealed as the game goes on. If you have a high
card, say the 15, or the 20, then that gives you inside information that the
total will probably be quite high, so you want to make “buy” bets that it’s a
high total. If you have a low card like the -10 you probably want to make
“sell” bets that the total is low. If you get a middle card like a 6 or a 7, then I
guess you’ll have to make something up.
The betting system is mainly what made the game a “trading game,”
because it was designed to mimic the way that traders make bets in the
markets: “price-making” and “price-taking” using “two-way markets.”
Let me quickly outline how trading happens in ﬁnancial markets. A big
customer—like a pension fund or a hedge fund or a big corporation—wants
to buy, or sell, something. It could be anything really, but in this example let’s
assume they want to buy ten million British pounds in exchange for US
dollars. In general, they do not call up a bank and say, “Hi there, I want to
buy ten million British pounds in exchange for USD.” They don’t do this for
two reasons:1. If the trader knows you want to buy British pounds, he’s probably going
to try and push the price of pounds up.
2. If the trader knows you want to buy British pounds, he could even go out
into the market and quickly buy loads of pounds, in the hope of pushing
the market price up before selling them to you at that higher price. This
is called “frontrunning” and is, in many cases, illegal, but it happens a lot.
To be clear, if you are a customer, you don’t want to tell the trader that you
want to buy before you actually get the chance to buy. To avoid this, you say
“Hi, give me a price on ten million pounds.”
When you say this, the trader (in theory) won’t know whether you want to
buy or sell. The convention then is that he has to give you two prices—one at
which you can buy and one at which you can sell. This is known as a “two-
way price” and is the way that almost all large ﬁnancial markets work. If you
think about it, you see something similar when you approach the foreign
exchange counter at an airport: it will have one price at which they buy
pounds in exchange for dollars, and another price at which they sell pounds in
exchange for dollars. The price at which they buy is, of course, always much
lower than the price at which they are selling. That is how foreign exchange
counters make their money. Traders do exactly the same thing.
Citibank’s Trading Game functioned in the same way. Any player could
ask any other player at any time “what’s your price?”; the other player would
have to provide a two-way price with a spread (between the buy price and the
sell price) of 2.
So, say you’re a young, money-hungry, wannabe trader, an LSE student
playing this game. You sit down at a table, wearing an expensive suit that your
dad, who is a member of the Chinese Politburo, bought you at great expense
from the ﬁnest tailor in London. A large and extremely conﬁdent-looking man
explains to you brieﬂy the rules of what appears a pretty straightforward
maths game, and then suddenly a small, aggressive-looking boy with an
almost incomprehensible accent and a white hoodie with a blue rhino on it
turns to you and asks, “What’s your price?”
What do you do?For most LSE students, well trained in economics, mathematics and
statistics, the answer is obvious. You look at the card in your hand, you look
at the possible cards in the deck, and you do a simple statistical calculation to
work out the “expected value” of the total sum of the cards. This is not a
diﬃcult mathematical calculation. The average value of a card in the deck is
7.65. There are eight cards in the game, so the average total should be 61.2.
You already know one of the cards, so, if your card is particularly high or low
you will shift that total up or down accordingly. If you have a 20, your
expected value is 68. You might have expected that to be something like 73,
since 20 is 12 more than 7.65, but you having the 20 means no one else has
the 20, so it only brings up the expectation by 7. If you have a -10, your
expected value is 51.2.
This is all simple maths, and it’s not diﬃcult to do. Everyone at the table
was able to do it.
But it’s stupid. And I’ll explain to you why.
I had been studying with LSE maths and economics and ﬁnance types for
a year by this point. I knew how they thought, and I ﬁgured that this is what
they were going to do. Because imagine you are playing this game. Imagine
one guy on your table has the 20, and he starts right away quoting 67–69
(remember, his expectation is 68). Another guy has the -10, and he starts
quoting 50–52. What do you do?
Well ﬁrst of all, you know right away that one guy has the -10 and another
guy has the 20. They’ve revealed to you exactly their cards with the ﬁrst
words that they’ve spoken. But that isn’t even the point here. The point is, that
you can go to the 50–52 guy, and bet that the total will be higher than 52.
Then you can turn to the 67–69 guy, and bet that the total will be lower than
67. Buy at 52; sell at 67. Those two bets cancel out immediately, and you
make a proﬁt of 15. That happens regardless of what the actual total of the
game is, a completely risk-free proﬁt of 15. Then you do it again.
Now if the other players in the game are smart, they will realize that
you’ve made a quick proﬁt. They will realize that it’s stupid to oﬀer to sell
something at 52 when another gentleman is oﬀering to buy it at 67. If the
other players are smart, they will realize that the small boy with the rhinohoodie has asked for 15 prices in the ﬁrst minute, and has already made a
guaranteed proﬁt of 100. They will realize that perhaps he knows what he’s
doing. They will think, perhaps, they should adjust.
But the kind of person who studies Economics at LSE and attends Finance
Society events is not smart. Or rather, they’re a diﬀerent kind of smart. They
are smart with a calculator, and they are good with a spreadsheet. Give them
a nice tie and a glass of wine and put them in a room with a Deutsche Bank
recruiter, and they may well make sparkling conversation. Make them play a
card game with a quick-talking boy from East London who has already had
three days to ﬁgure the game out, and they probably won’t realize that they
are losing the game until it’s about an hour too late.
Just like that, I won the whole competition. Buy low, sell high, buy low,
sell high, buy low and sell high again. It was ridiculous. The other players
barely looked up from their calculators. While they were working out their
expected values, I was just chucking points into the bag.
Now this game was only a maths game, but it does tell you a few things
about markets:
1. Individual traders don’t set the price. Just because you think something is
worth 60, you don’t oﬀer to buy it at 59 if everyone else is selling it at 50.
If other people are selling it at 50, the highest you should possibly quote
is 50–52. There is no point oﬀering to buy at 51 if someone is out there
selling at 50. This shows something interesting about markets, which is
that an individual trader shouldn’t quote what they think something is
worth, but rather what everyone else thinks is the price.
2. Because of this, if you ask ten diﬀerent traders for a price, you shouldn’t
get ten diﬀerent prices: they should all converge on a similar price. This
will be true even if the ten diﬀerent traders have totally diﬀerent views
about what the price should actually be.
3. If another guy looks like he knows what he’s doing and is making a load
of money, and you have no clue what you are doing, then maybe you
should just copy that guy.4. Point 3 is the main driving force in most ﬁnancial markets.
I know that the ﬁrst round of the trading competition was not a fair
competition. I’d been told the rules three days beforehand, and everyone else
heard them only on the day. I know that that is probably a big factor in why I
won that game that day, and I know that that was ultimately the ﬁrst stage in
me getting a job that would, eventually, make me a millionaire. That wasn’t
fair, I know that. But, to be honest, I don’t care. The rest of those guys in that
room went on to be millionaires because their dads were millionaires. Some
of them went on to be traders, because their dads were traders. My dad
worked for the Post Oﬃce, and I didn’t have a desk at my house to do maths
homework on. You take your breaks where you can get them, I guess. I went
up to that trader at the front of the room and I shook his huge hand.
“Well done,” he said. “I’ll see you in the ﬁnal.”
“Thanks,” I said. “I’ll see you there.”
—
It was about three weeks between the LSE round of the trading game and the
national ﬁnal, and I barely went to a single lecture or class in that whole time.
Matic had also made it through. I taught all my other friends how to play the
game and I holed up in this one room in the library and I just played it
constantly for three weeks, with anyone I knew who would join. When I
couldn’t ﬁnd anyone to play the game with, I made spreadsheets about it and I
memorized them. This was just some stupid numbers game that somebody at
Citibank had made up. By the time the ﬁnal had come round, I must have
been the world’s preeminent expert on it.
The ﬁnal was to be held in the Citigroup Tower, which at that time, in
2006, was one of the three tallest buildings in the country, with the HSBC
tower and the blinking pyramid dome of the main Canary Wharf tower
completing the triangle. Those were the buildings that I’d seen on the horizon,
from Ilford, between the lamp posts at the end of the street. It felt like fate.
But I still had to win.By the time the ﬁnal came round, warm early autumn had become cold
early winter. I put on a dark blue checked shirt and a fat blue-and-yellow tie.
It was what I used to wear when I ﬂuﬀed pillows at DFS. The afternoon was
already dark when I set oﬀ on the underground from the LSE to Canary
Wharf. The Jubilee Line trains had a totally diﬀerent sound to the ones that
ran past my bed every morning. They make a spiraling, whirring, ascending
sound when they speed up and slow down. They sounded new. They sounded
high-tech. To me they always sounded like money.
The game was held on one of the top ﬂoors of the tower. In the winter
evening, from that height, London is just a huge mass of windows and
glowing lamp posts. I had looked up at these skyscrapers every day, as a
child, and on another day it might have occurred to me to look out the
windows, to try and see my house. But I wasn’t there for sightseeing; my brain
was full of numbers. Besides, I wouldn’t have known which way to look.
Before the game, there was a brief reception of champagne and canapés. I
didn’t know what a canapé was neither, and I didn’t drink any champagne.
The other candidates mingled and laughed gently with the traders in
attendance. Probably laughing about CDOs, I supposed. But I wasn’t
listening. I was there for the numbers. Five competitors had been put through
from each of ﬁve universities: LSE, Oxford, Cambridge, Durham, Warwick. I
guess as far as Citibank was concerned, other universities didn’t matter. That
made twenty-ﬁve competitors, including me, and I’d now played with all of
the LSE contingent. I fancied my chances.
We settled down to our tables. As the same massive, smiling trader from
the ﬁrst round at LSE delivered some motivational words, I was sizing up the
players on my table. My strategy would have to be totally diﬀerent for this
round. Everyone here had played in the ﬁrst round and done well enough to
go through. They should have been good enough to realize that it’s
nonsensical to quote prices that diverged from the others on the table. That
meant there would be no easy money to be made simply by buying low and
selling high between diﬀerent players.
That fact, however—that players would realize the foolishness of quoting
far apart from one another—created new opportunities. Through myrelentless practice games, I had realized that most players demonstrated a
rigid willingness to stick closely to the prices being quoted around them,
diverging only slightly. They did this largely by ear, listening out for the prices
being quoted, so as to keep their own prices nearby. This presented an
opportunity to manipulate the prices being quoted by others simply by
quoting prices myself, very loudly. The game operated in a free-for-all style
(much like real markets), and if prices were being made around the 62–64
level, loudly quoting 58–60 enough times would often bring the price down to
about there. Another opportunity to set the price level would be by
immediately quoting a price, again loudly, at the beginning of the game.
This presented a new, potentially proﬁtable, strategy. If I had a high card, I
would begin the game by calling out a low price. This is a relatively simple
bluﬀ—indicating that I have a low card, to bring the overall price down, so
that I can then go on to buy at a low level from a variety of players, since
everyone has stuck to my initial low price. The risk of this, of course, would
be that other participants would realize I was bluﬃng, simply buy from me at
a low price, and continue trading at a high price. I was counting here on that
relatively simple message that had been taught to me some weeks before by
my friend Sagar Malde: rich people expect poor people to be stupid. If
someone who looks like me, and talks like me, starts the game by loudly
declaring what sounds like an excessively low price, the other players are
more likely to read it as a simpleton revealing his hand cheaply than any kind
of complicated bluﬀ.
After that the plan was to simply ask others for prices incessantly, in order
to work out their own strategy, and their hands. Here I was relying on another
piece of information that I had gleaned from the LSE players: most of these
guys were not counting on winning the tournament, but were hoping to use
the ﬁnal as a networking opportunity. Given this, most players could be
trusted upon to employ a relatively simplistic strategy—quote slightly higher
than the average if they had a high card, slightly lower if they had a low one.
Some might quote a neutral price so as not to reveal information, but that was
rare. Very few would ever bluﬀ. Remember, these guys are economics
students, they’re not poker players.The key takeaway here is that economists nowadays are ultimately
mathematicians, not great thinkers or game players. The other students were
playing through calculators, and while they were playing through their
calculators, I was guiding their ears, and reading their eyes. Start with a loud
bluﬀ, then rapidly assess every other player’s intelligence, level of complexity,
and likely card. Once that was established, I’d decide whether I wanted to buy
(bet the total would be high) or sell (bet the total would be low). If I was a
buyer, I guided the price down by loudly quoting low prices, while actively
buying from other players at that low level. If I was a seller, I did the
opposite.
The strategy worked to perfection, and after the ﬁrst ﬁve games, I was put
through to the big ﬁnal, the ﬁnal of the ﬁnal. Only ﬁve players now. One
internship on the line. That’s good odds.
As the ﬁve of us moved to the central table, the eliminated competitors
grabbed canapés and gathered round to watch.
I sized up the players around me. I had played most of them in the games
leading up to this ﬁnal. They were all good, quick to pick up on price
movements and well aware of the maths in the background—but none of
them, I thought, had been smart enough to bluﬀ or read bluﬃng. I ﬁgured my
chances were good.
The cards came round and mine was a -10. This is a good card. The -10 is
the furthest card from the average, which means it has the most power to
change the total of the game. But of course, it’s only of value if other people
don’t realize you’ve got it. Otherwise, they’ll immediately start lowering their
own prices, and you’ll have no way to proﬁt from it. This is another general
rule of trading: you don’t necessarily make money by being right, but by
being right when others are wrong.
I stuck to my usual strategy and immediately declared a high price. If I
could establish a high price across the game, then I would hopefully be able to
“sell” at high prices continuously, making the most of my -10 card.
Surprisingly, the ﬁrst player did not “sell” to me, despite my high price. I
asked him his price in return. It was even higher. He’s giving his game away,
surely: he’s got a high card.I asked the other three players. All were quoting high prices. Everyone had
reasonably high cards, it seemed. That meant we were going to have a high
total, not accounting for my -10, so for me to make any proﬁt, I would have
to push the price up. I started quoting higher and higher, and louder and
louder, until ﬁnally people started selling to me. I was able to push the price a
bit higher still, and then I started selling, hard. At this kind of price, and with
the -10 in my hand, it was almost impossible to lose. The trick was to quote
my own prices high and loud, pushing the market up as if I were an
aggressive buyer, but to actually sell when asking prices from the other
players. In the chaos and noise of the game, the other players weren’t able to
keep track of who was buying and selling from their own quoted prices, but
the continually repeated numbers being quoted had a strong power to
inﬂuence the price.
I started to stack up a lot of “sell” bets, conﬁdent that it was a near
certainty at this price that the end total would be far lower. The time came to
turn over for the ﬁrst of the three central cards. It was a 13.
A 13 was not good for me. Signiﬁcantly higher than the average card value
of 7.65, it drags up the expected total of the cards by about 3 points. With a
signiﬁcant number of “sell” bets on my scorecard, this wasn’t good news. Still,
I had the -10 in my hand, which nobody knew about, and the prices were
high. The maths was all well in my favor. I used the opportunity to ramp the
price up even further and continued to sell.
By the time the second card went over, I had used up two full scorecards
of sell bets. The second card was a 14.
I should maybe have been suspicious at that point, but I wasn’t. Besides, I
didn’t have time to be. I needed the total to be low or that was my career
down the drain, and if it wasn’t going to be low, I wasn’t going to let that stop
me. I ramped the price up and started selling even more aggressively at an
even higher price. By the end of the game I had racked up about 300 s ells.
The ﬁnal card went over. It was a 20. The four other players turned their
cards over. 10, 11, 12, 15. It was impossible. With the exception of my single
-10 card, the other cards were the seven highest possible cards in the game.The odds of that happening by chance are one in eleven thousand, four
hundred and forty. 0:0087%. The game had been ﬁxed.
I didn’t know how to deal with this situation. For just a moment, my blood
ran cold. The crowd loved it. The other players were, of course, delighted. I
had made so many sells that their scorecards were all, inevitably, a litany of
buys. And the price, in the end, was super high. Who rigged the game? Why?
What could this mean?
The table disbanded as the traders and other Citigroup staﬀ members
convened in the back of the room to count up the scores. The players all
melted into the crowd.
“I’m sorry mate.” That was Matic, his hand on my shoulder. “That was
unlucky mate. You did your best.”
I’m not sure what I said then, to Matic. Maybe I just said nothing at all.
For ﬁve minutes the room seemed to be melting. I found I had a ﬂute of
champagne in my hand, with those little bubbles that keep coming out of
nowhere and ﬂying upward and never seem to run out. What just happened?
Who did this? Why would they cheat me?
Shortly after, the trader strode into the center of the room, his huge
presence immediately silencing the crowd. A space opened up around him.
“I would like to thank you all for playing,” he called out, and his loud,
American voice brought me back to the room. “We’ve calculated the scores,
and I can announce the winner.”
I don’t remember anyone’s score exactly. But mine was less than minus
one thousand. That’s…not good. The truth is, I wasn’t embarrassed. If you
don’t shoot, you don’t score, you know?
After reading out the scores, the heavy-set trader announced the winner.
And the name that he called out was mine. I was the winner. It was me.
I stepped forward, in a daze.
The trader addressed the crowd as he shook my hand.
“Gary’s scores in the warm-up games were so far ahead of any other player
that we decided to test him. We wanted to see how he reacted when every
single thing turned against him, so we rigged the game. It’s important to knowwhether a trader will back himself, or back down. Gary, you backed yourself,
and we like to see that. Well done.”
The trader reached his huge hand out to me once again, and I took it.
“I’m Caleb Zucman, I’ll see you on the desk.”
—
It was cold that night, but I went to the park with my friends, drinking. I got
very drunk, so I can’t really remember much of what happened. But one
memory has stayed with me clearly. It is a memory of me moving very
quickly, so that the cold air was rushing across my face. In that memory I am
clutching a friend by the shoulders. “I’m going to be a millionaire!” I am
shouting. I am screaming in his face, and he’s laughing. “I’m going to be a
millionaire!”
3
ONE MORNING IN EARLY MARCH, 2007, I woke before the sun came up.
We didn’t used to have a shower in my mum and dad’s house. We had this
little rubber hose that you can still buy from Argos for six pounds. I plugged it
into the taps and I showered myself, sitting on the cold, early-morning plastic
of the bathtub. My dad knocked on the bathroom door before I was ﬁnished.
He used to start work early too.
I pulled out those old DFS clothes. Dark blue shirt; fat blue-and-yellow tie.
Wrapped it all up in some cheap, black, ill-ﬁtting suit from Next, or
something, and I gelled up my hair. Then I left. It was still dark at that time.
I grew up in Ilford, but the closest station used to be called Seven Kings. In
winter, before the sun comes up, the early morning commuters all stand there
in the dark and they shiver as they wait for the train. Their breaths are all
white in the air. This was the train that used to run through my bedroom. I
tried to look for my window, but I missed it.
Change at Stratford, onto the Jubilee Line. Again that looping, winding,
whirring sound, and the train dives underground, heading forward now, into
the Wharf. On that day, in March 2007, I was still only twenty, and the sound
hit me diﬀerent. That day, it sounded like the future.
The train plunges underground before it reaches Canary Wharf station.
Those stations were all brand new back then, and Canary Wharf’s was huge
and so spacious, with this crazy high ceiling, like an underground cathedral.
You could tell it was all bank workers ﬁling oﬀ the trains and along the
platforms. Expensive, anonymous haircuts. Expensive, anonymous shirts.They snaked across the station in long, straight lines, heading for the exits. I
cut into a line and snaked with them.
Out of the station and toward the building, and I see it now, in the ﬁrst
light of dawn. The Citigroup Center: a forty-two-story skyscraper in gun-
metal gray steel and glass that sits on the southern point of a triangle of
skyscrapers in the center of Canary Wharf. At that time, the top of the
building sported the word “CITIGROUP” in huge, red, glowing letters, with a
little red umbrella glowing alongside. For some reason, and I don’t know why,
thick white steam emanates from the tops of the buildings in the mornings
and the evenings in winter. The tube station has these four long escalators that
ﬂow upward into a huge circular glowing opening hanging above them, so that
when you are leaving the station, it feels like you are boarding a spaceship or
something. And then, when you come out, you are in a broad, open plaza
with trees and with water but with more, so much more than anything, these
giant gray columns of metal, soaring upward, spilling their steam to the navy
blue clouds.
Across the streets now, to the building. The wind whips between the
skyscrapers, and by the time I reached the vast, warm, brightly lit reception
of the Citigroup building, it felt like a sanctuary. Inside there it was all
expensive-looking furniture, colorful abstract art and impossibly well-ironed
staﬀ. A soft-focus receptionist sent me over to a soft-focus sofa, and I sat
down, adjusting my tie.
A kindly looking lady called Stephanie turned up, and handed me a
visitor’s pass. She walked me through a set of security gates, and around one
corner, and into what seemed, to me, to be the world’s largest atrium, all
escalators and glass. This was a whole new building now, and I could see all
the way to the roof, which must have been twenty ﬂoors above me. At each
level, huge, brightly lit rooms looked out on two sides through thick walls
made of windows onto a vast, tall and wide empty space, at the bottom of
which I was standing, looking up. Glass and metal walkways and balconies
branched out at intervals, connecting oﬃces across the divide. I didn’t know
about it, at that time, but less than one year earlier, a Citigroup employee had
committed suicide by jumping all the way through that central space. He’dfallen twenty ﬂoors without even going outside. Some of the traders had gone
out onto the balconies, to look down. So it goes, I guess.
Stephanie led me up three ﬂights of escalators to the glass walkways of the
second ﬂoor. Etched in crystal white onto the vast glass doors were the words
“Fixed Income Trading Floor.” Words which meant nothing to me. I would
spend four years of my life on that ﬂoor.
The trading ﬂoor itself is a vast room. Entering from the middle, the room
seems to spread for ﬁfty meters in every direction: to my left, to my right, and
out in front. The thing that jumps out straight away is the monitors. Each
trader has eight, nine, ten, even twelve monitors rising up in a huge square or
rectangle in front of them. Row upon row upon row of traders, each craning
upward to look at these monitor walls above and around them, enveloping
them.
The traders sit back-to-back in long rows, mirroring the long strip lighting
hanging down from the ceiling above them, each arching up into their
screens. The walls to the outside are ﬂoor-to-ceiling glass windows, although
from where I’m stood, just inside the door, those windows seemed a long way
away. Wide, black digital signboards hang at intervals from the ceiling,
displaying the time in diﬀerent cities throughout the world: London, New
York, Sydney, Tokyo. Beneath their banks of screens, each trader has a huge,
heavy black speakerbox, about a meter wide, covered in buttons and dials and
switches. Later in the morning, the room would ﬁll with an ever-rising
crescendo of noises from those speakerboxes—pings and bleeps and kachings
and shouted numbers—but from where I am, about 7:30 in the morning, the
noise was peculiarly calm. The loudest thing was the buzz of the strip lights.
Beneath that, a low hum, of voices.
Stephanie led me round to the right of the trading ﬂoor, for some distance,
and then cut left into one of the aisles that separated the rows. We were
moving forward now, into the heart of the trading ﬂoor, and to either side of
me, I could look along the long rows of back-to-back traders as we walked.
White shirt, white shirt, light pink shirt, white shirt. So this is what traders
look like, I thought.We started to move into a section of the trading ﬂoor that was noisier. The
mismatched melody of electronic signals and warnings and loud human
laughing and shouting of numbers that would eventually become the music of
my life. I looked around as the noise started rising, and Stephanie cut right
onto one of these desks.
We were walking directly between traders now, through the thin space
between traders’ backs. The noises were getting louder and louder and I could
see the multicolored numbers ﬂashing on the huge walls of screens. This
desk, far in the back corner of the trading ﬂoor, was buttressed on the far end
by a vast window, and I could see out of it onto the station and the trees and
the water in the plaza and I could see the sun starting to rise.
Stephanie stopped and bent her knees slightly, and leaned into the vast,
hulking back of a trader and said something very gently into his ear.
And the trader pushed with his arms against the desk edge and his oﬃce
chair kicked two feet back and spun around and he stood up, huge, now,
between me and the window. And he was so backlit against the brightness of
the sun through that window that I could barely make out his huge, beaming
smile, but I knew it was Caleb, and I took once again his huge outstretched
hand as it reached out, downward, to me.
“Hi Gary. Welcome to the STIRT desk.”
4
STEPHANIE WAS GONE NOW. I hadn’t noticed her going, but she was deﬁnitely
gone. And I was standing, squinting upward, in Caleb’s shadow.
With a heavy hand on my shoulder, Caleb walked me away from the
window and back toward the central aisle of the trading ﬂoor. The STIRT
desk had about ten traders in total, seated back-to-back either side of us as
we walked, and Caleb gestured to each of them as we walked past.
“This is Bill, he trades sterling.”
“This is JB, he trades Aussie, Kiwi, Yen.”
“This is Wheeley, he trades Skandis.”
In most of these cases I had no real idea what the brief description meant.
Not one of the traders spoke to me as I walked past. A couple of them
jerked their heads around, almost instinctively, upon hearing their names,
only to quickly turn back. Each of them was deeply involved in the ﬂashing
lights and sounds rolling out of their station: one of them wrapped around a
thick, heavy brown hand phone; another shouting numbers into his huge
speakerbox.
Caleb stopped at the very end of the row. There, half-falling into the
central aisle and separated from the rest of the traders by an empty space, sat
the man, or perhaps more of a boy, in hindsight, who would be my ﬁrst ever
direct senior in trading.
“Snoopy!”
Caleb shouted loudly and Snoopy turned, with a start. No sooner had he
turned than he was up on his feet and wiping his hands on the front of histrousers. He was, I was thankful to notice immediately, the size of an
ordinary man, only a couple of inches taller than me. He introduced himself
while shaking my hand and smiling and nodding. His real name, it turned out,
was not Snoopy, but Sundeep. For some reason, after introducing himself to
me, he then turned and shook Caleb’s hand as well. Still smiling and nodding
the whole time.
With no more than that Caleb was gone, as quickly as Stephanie, and I was
left, then, just me and Sundeep. Notwithstanding my lack of direction or
instruction, Sundeep too, was very quickly away from me, and back inside his
wall of screens. And there I was, standing alone, at the edge of the desk, and
it was not immediately clear what I was supposed to be doing, or in fact,
where I was supposed to sit.
But that was OK. I had been told about this. I had been warned. This was
“the nothing.” I’d heard clusters of Pakistani ﬁnance society members talking
about it while ﬁlling in application forms in large huddles in the LSE library.
You ﬁll in thirty-ﬁve application forms, you write thirty-ﬁve cover letters, you
memorize the meanings of about one hundred acronyms and you do twenty or
thirty interviews. Then, when you ﬁnally walk onto your ﬁrst trading ﬂoor, to
start your ﬁrst internship, absolutely roaring with enthusiasm to meet your
ﬁrst team and to make your ﬁrst million dollars you get given…No thing. No
work today. No clear instruction. No obvious job. And in many cases, such as
mine, now, also no seat. When you’re an intern, the job doesn’t get given to
you. It’s your job to make the job yours. You make your own money on the
trading ﬂoor, I guess.
There was an empty seat and an entire station of computers and monitors
free to Snoopy’s left, but for all I knew that could be someone’s. So I went
and took an empty chair from somewhere else on the trading ﬂoor when no
one was looking and rolled it over to Snoopy’s right, in front of a small ﬁling
cabinet. I was half leaning into the central aisle from this position, but I could
see all the things that I needed to: Snoopy’s screen, just in front of me, and
the whole desk of traders to my left. It would be my job to keep an eye on the
traders and subtly notice when someone wasn’t busy so I could sneak in and
talk to them. I could also use the ﬁling cabinet as a kind of makeshift desk. Iripped a sheet of paper out of my notepad and drew a little diagram, writing
as much as I could remember of the traders: their names, their roles and
where they sat. I showed it to Snoopy and asked him if it was right. He
thought that was pretty funny, and made a few corrections. I placed it on the
ﬁling cabinet in front of me and made a clean copy on another sheet of paper.
I folded that one up and put it in my pocket.
Snoopy was clearly, without a doubt, the desk junior. He couldn’t have
been more than three or four years older than I was, and every single other
trader on the desk looked at least seven or eight years older than him. I tried a
couple times to lean into Snoopy’s peripheral vision and ask him about what
he was doing, but each time he smiled sheepishly and palmed me oﬀ. He had
the look of a boy copying someone’s homework. I liked him immediately. But
it was patently clear both to me and to Snoopy that my future would not be in
his hands. He knew it. I knew it. He knew I knew it.
I would have to look for bigger ﬁsh.
I turned to my left and looked at the members of the STIRT desk.
Even to my young, untrained eyes, they had the air of a ramshackle mob.
In the far corner, behind Caleb and next to the window sat a small, middle-
aged man. White haired, near-spherical and hobbit-like, he sat too-small in
his wobbling oﬃce chair, typing furiously with one of those huge brown
phones clamped hard between his ear and left shoulder, head cocked to the
left. He angled himself away from the desk, toward the window, and
occasionally cast suspicious glances backward toward the other traders, as if
wary of being caught. Another middle-aged man, tall, wiry, red-faced and
completely bald, stood chairless, one pink shirt tail ﬂapping erratically,
leaning into his computers, shouting and swearing into the screens in a broad
Australian drawl. A swarthy Italian three seats down from me sat in a
crumpled, expensive-looking shirt, laughing deeply into his headset. He
looked like he’d not been to sleep. Even Caleb, so eﬀortlessly, milkily smooth
and charming at the trading game, looked older, less polished, talking
amiably on the phone in his oversized American suit.
This was not actually my ﬁrst ever time on the trading ﬂoor. The prize for
winning the trading game had been two one-week internships, of which thiswas the second. The game now was to turn those two weeks into the summer
internship, and then turn that into a job. I’d spent my ﬁrst week, the previous
December, on the “Credit Trading” desk, approximately one year and ten
months before that precise desk would blow up the world economy. Of
course, I had not known about the impending death of the world economy, at
that time. Nor did I know of it now, three months later, as I sat falling oﬀ the
corner of the STIRT desk, wondering what it was that “STIRT” actually stood
for, and why the traders here looked so diﬀerent to those Credit Traders on
the other side of this room.
The Credit Traders had been like the LSE students. Polished, starched,
uniformed, smooth. The STIRT Traders, well, they were not that. They had
accents. Real accents, from real places. I liked that. I also wondered why.
But this was no time for sociological analysis. Time was ticking. I needed
a mark.
The choice, at least, could not have been simpler. Whilst most of the
traders were absorbed in their screens or their telephones, wiry, bald-head,
red-faced pink shirt was a locus of skittish activity. Shouting snippets of jokes
into his speakerboxes, hollering things I didn’t understand at traders on other
desks, over the walls of screens, slapping other traders on the back
unexpectedly. Ever standing. Ever moving. He seemed dying to be bothered.
I pulled the slip of paper out of my pocket and checked it. “JB. Ozzie. Kiwi.
Yen.” Whatever that meant.
I got myself behind him and to his right as he was standing, so that I could
peek gently into his peripheral vision. In his whirl of noise and motion, he
seemed not to notice me at all. I leaned in.
“JB.”
JB stopped sharp, like he’d sighted an animal, and stared headlong into the
distance, through his screens, for at least ﬁve or six seconds. All of a sudden
he whipped his head round rapidly to the right, where I was standing, then to
the left, then to the right again. I was honestly not sure if it was a skit or if he
had genuinely not seen me. No one else looked away from their screens.
“JB,” I said again, and JB slowly lowered his gaze to me. I looked upward
at JB. JB looked downward at me.“Hi, JB. My name’s Gary.” I said, a little stutteringly, as I put out my hand.
JB looked at my hand. For longer, I felt, than really he should have done.
He looked, again, back at my face. My hand had been out for a while now,
and I looked in turn back at JB. His face had, for whatever reason, remained a
vision of shock this whole time.
And then, suddenly, that face was beaming, he whipped my hand round as
if taking it oﬀ.
“Fuckin oath mate! Where the fuck did you get that tie?”
I looked down at my tie. Blue. Fat. Yellow stripes. JB’s hand was still
squeezing my hand.
“Erm. I’m not sure mate. I think it’s from Next?”
—
JB waved a beckoning hand which I took to mean to bring my chair over, so I
rolled across, perched next to his ﬁling cabinet and leaned in to look at his
screens. The ﬂashing lines and numbers could have been the betting markets
for the horses for all I knew at that time. In hindsight, at least one of them
probably was.
With my arrival, JB seemed to have immediately lost interest in those
ﬂashing numbers, and made a half-turn toward me. From this position,
talking over his right shoulder to me one second and shouting back over his
left shoulder into his computers the next, JB conducted a surprisingly
personal interview. JB wanted to know where I came from and what the hell I
was doing on the desk. He wanted to know what football team I supported
and took a surprising interest in the provenance of my clothes.
At the time, this behavior was confusing to me. My previous stint on the
trading ﬂoor had consisted largely of uninspiring spreadsheet work and
somewhat turgid explanations of Credit Default Swaps. No one had ever
asked where my tie was from. It is only looking back now, with the beneﬁt of
six years working on trading ﬂoors, that I can see how eminently sensible
Johnny’s (JB’s full name was Johnny Blackstone) questions actually were.
Twenty-year-old kids do not, in general, just rock up onto the trading ﬂoor.Especially not twenty-year-old kids who, as in my case, look and are dressed
as if they have been sent by their parents to the local estate agents to ask for
work experience. The only twenty-year-old kids you will ﬁnd on the trading
ﬂoor are those whose parents run the trading ﬂoor. Those people neither
sound nor look like me. JB was, I think, amused and intrigued. Looking back,
I think I would have been too.
JB was delighted to ﬁnd out that I was from Ilford, after ﬁguring out that it
was, at least in some senses, in Essex. JB’s girlfriend and, apparently, many of
his brokers (whatever a broker was) were also from Essex. He pressed down
one of the million switches on the big black box under his monitors and asked
a mystery person if they’d ever been to Ilford. A deep, cockney voice from
the pub boomed back.
“Oh yeah, Ilford. Used to go down Ilford Palais all the time when I was
younger. All changed down there now though. All changed…”
JB was even more delighted to ﬁnd out I supported Leyton Orient.
“Orient!” he shouted out, as if he’d never pronounced the letter O before. He
called me Orient for the rest of the week.
JB told me everything about his background. He’d moved to England
twenty years previously to study law at Oxford. From his accent I wouldn’t
have guessed that he’d been outside of Queensland for much more than a day.
He’d hated law so had dropped out to play rugby for London Irish. From
there, he had gone into broking, and from there, into trading. This was not, of
course, the traditional LSE-style pipeline involving writing thirty-ﬁve CVs
and cover letters while inverting matrices. Something was afoot here, I
suspected, but again, there was not really time to get into it. JB also, ﬁnally,
told me what “STIRT” stood for, which was “Short Term Interest Rates
Trading.” That was a considerable weight oﬀ of my mind.
JB was once again delighted when he learned that I had won the internship
in a “trading game.” This started him on a long monologue about trading and
his journey within it, of which I did not understand much. He showed me
graphs and told me many stories. I looked into Johnny’s eyes, I looked at the
graphs. I looked into the middle distance, and thought. Or at least, I narrowedmy eyes to give the sense of thinking. I wondered if he could tell that I didn’t
understand.
I cannot emphasize enough how much of my early experience of trading
consisted of this. Of listening to traders, of nodding along sagely, of pulling
the faces of a boy thinking deeply, and of understanding nothing at all. At the
time, my lack of comprehension seemed to me so overwhelmingly complete,
so painfully obvious, that I could not for the life of me understand how the act
was not noticed. After ﬁfteen years in ﬁnance and economics, I now know
why. Everyone’s doing it, all of the time.
Anyway, I must have been good at it, because my nodding was going down
a storm. JB and I were getting along like a house on ﬁre. (Fifteen years after
this conversation, as step nine of a twelve-step recovery program me, in an
old pub overlooking the River Thames, JB would ﬁll in some of the gaps
here, as to why he took to me so quickly, and also why he used to speak so
fast. At the time, I ﬁgured he was just a really nice guy, and that maybe I was
just really charming.)
After about two hours of this intense conversation, JB decided it was time
to pass me on. He spun his chair round so that he was blocking the central
aisle and shouted unnecessarily loudly at the trader behind him, who he was
now quite close to.
“Hobbsy!”
Hobbsy vibrated a little, then, a few seconds later, turned his chair around,
very slowly, to face us.
“Meet Gazza. Orient fan.”
I stood up quickly and oﬀered a hand for Hobbsy to shake.
Hobbsy didn’t take my hand, but, instead, looked me once over, slowly, in
a way that is quite simply not socially acceptable in this day and age. With
him seated, and me standing, hand proﬀered, he scanned me very slowly,
from my head, all the way down to my feet. At that point, he paused, perhaps
thinking. And then, up again, to my head.
After another pause, he turned back to his station and opened a tray in his
ﬁling cabinet. He took a business card out of the tray, stood up, turned
around at a measured pace, and placed that card into my hand.I looked at the card. On it was printed: “Rupert Hobhouse. Head of Euro
Rates Trading.”
I looked up, over the top of the card and into the face of Rupert
Hobhouse.
It was only then that Rupert Hobhouse oﬀered his own hand to me.
“I’m Rupert Hobhouse,” he said. “Head of Euro Rates trading.”
“Hi Rupert,” I said, as Rupert broke each of my knuckles. “I’m Gary, nice
to meet you.”
—
For my part, while Rupert had scanned me, I’d had much time to look at his
face. It was at once babyish and concerningly stern, at once handsome and
unnecessarily fat. He must have been in his early thirties. Thick black-
rimmed glasses framed his eyes beneath a professionally coiﬀed brown quiﬀ.
He had the aura of a man whose parents had dropped him oﬀ unexpectedly at
boarding school when he was just six years old and had not picked him up
until he was twenty-one. I would later ﬁnd that this was not actually far from
the truth. He had the muscular-verging-on-fat physique of a man who has
been well-fed for many years, possibly from birth. As if his body was
struggling to come up with new ways to use all the nutrition. It was a physique
that was at certain points straining at the seams somewhat, as was his, clearly,
expensive shirt. It spoke of a capacity for violence.
Rupert turned back without a word and JB wandered oﬀ to the bathroom.
I took this to mean that I was to sit next to Rupert. I needed only really to
turn my chair around and then I was perched looking over his shoulder.
Rupert’s body language did not acknowledge my presence, but he
immediately launched into a monologue about the nature of his work, which,
given the speciﬁcities of the circumstances surrounding us at that time, could
only realistically have been directed at me. The lack of eye contact spared me
signiﬁcant nodding, so I decided to alternate between taking notes at random
and leaning forward and looking at screens.Rupert Hobhouse was, as had already been established at least two times,
the Senior Euro Rates Trader. The Euro was, by far, the biggest and most
important currency traded on the desk, and the responsibility was split jointly,
but not evenly, between him and his junior Ho Nguyen. Rupert gestured to
Ho Nguyen without looking and so I turned and I looked at the guy. I
recognized the name Nguyen as Vietnamese and I was wondering if he was
maybe an international LSE type, but he quickly turned back to me with a big
smile and said, “You all right mate? Call me Hongo,” and it turned out he was
actually from Norwich.
Trading Euro FX Swaps (it was only at this point that I learned the
primary function of the desk—trading FX Swaps—although I had no idea
what FX Swaps were) involved a huge number of trades, signiﬁcant risks and
volumes, and constant interaction with all of Europe’s biggest banks.
At this point Rupert waved toward one of his screens, on which was a long
list of random words and numbers that I now know to be a trade blotter: a
full, itemized list of all the trades that he had done on that day. I nodded and
chose a few numbers at random, and jotted them onto my pad.
Rupert had still not looked at me once, but, in partial defense of his wholly
impersonal style of communication, he and Ho—especially Ho, to be honest
—did seem far more busy than JB. Other traders on the desk would shout
numbers and words at them frequently, utterances which appeared to require
contemplation, digestion and response. Their various screens and
speakerboxes commanded them with bleeps at regular intervals and each
bleep, it seemed, had to be picked up.
Over the course of about half an hour, Rupert delivered a concise and
compact philosophy of trading, generally illustrated with ever longer lists of
words and colored numbers, which, whilst only slightly more intelligible than
JB’s explanation, was radically diﬀerent in style. What for JB had been
passionate and emotional, for Rupert was compulsively precise. I had no idea
who was the better trader, but I could guess who made more friends in the
pub.
By the time it had ﬁnished, Rupert’s analysis of Foreign Exchange Swap
Trading left me more confused than it found me.Rupert had asked nothing about me. That was because he already knew
everything about me. Or at least, he already knew everything that I had said
to JB. This was somewhat disconcerting, as I’d had no idea that he, or indeed
anyone, had been listening. What with the constant bleating of speakerboxes
from everyone’s station, it was something of a wonder that he’d even been
able to pick out my voice.
Be that as it may, Rupert must have done so, for he already had most of
the details. The one extra piece of information that he wanted added was, of
course, what kind of school I had gone to. This was a potential tripwire for
me, as I had been expelled from a grammar school for selling drugs, and the
fact that I had moved from a grammar school to a comprehensive was clearly
visible on my CV, which Caleb, and hence possibly Rupert, had access to.
But I had prepared for exactly this question, and I told Rupert that I had left
the grammar school to go to a comprehensive because I’d heard that
universities had quotas for comprehensive school students. Rupert’s face
barely moved, but I could tell that he liked that—a thin, English smile played
just slightly, somewhat musically, at the corners of his tightly held lips.
With my schooling covered oﬀ, Rupert moved on to the question he really
wanted to ask me. It was only now that he ﬁrst looked at me. He opened the
top tray of his desk drawer, from where he’d extracted the business card, and
drew out a pack of trading game cards. He placed them on the desk in front
of me and then, moving only above the neck, like an owl, revolved his head to
face me for the ﬁrst time.
“Tell me how you won the trading game.”
The sudden eye contact, combined with this strange way of moving, caught
me oﬀ guard, and for a moment I was unable to speak. But I steadied myself
and explained quickly my thinking: that the ideal strategy depended on the
level of player against which one was playing; that weak players could be
beaten with simple arbitrage; that the more complex players in the game were
still generally uncomfortable with bluﬃng and could be thrown oﬀ by
aggressive loudness. Rupert watched me, unmoving, the whole time. When
his computer bleeped he ignored it; Hongo picked it up. It struck me that
perhaps for some reason Rupert had chosen to forget completely all the ﬁnerand undeﬁned spaces that exist between listening and ignoring. One year
later, apropos of nothing, Rupert Hobhouse would take me to Las Vegas and
explain to me that, with only ten questions, he could ascertain with absolute
certainty whether a woman would sleep with him or not. He never told me
what those questions were.
Once my explanation of the trading game was over, Rupert simply turned
back to his computers and resumed his duties as if he had never moved away
from them, and a heavy silence seemed to fall between us. I was still
awkwardly straddling the ﬁling cabinet to Rupert’s left, which belonged to the
unknown trader on the other side of me, and the complete lack of
acknowledgment by anyone around me made my already ridiculous physical
positioning all the more conspicuous.
It was by now approaching lunchtime, so, in an attempt to assuage the
awkwardness I leaned into Rupert’s peripheral vision and said, “Erm…Do
you want me to go…get you lunch??”
Rupert did actually react physically to this one. He turned his whole body,
much more naturally, with one eyebrow raised. He reached into his pocket,
pulled out his wallet and handed me ﬁfty pounds in cash.
“Yes. And get lunch for Caleb and Hongo and JB as well.”
I was quite relieved at this response, to be honest. I used to frequently pick
up lunch orders for the sales guys at DFS, and it seemed an easy way to both
be noticed and get into people’s good books. I whipped round and collected
everyone’s orders, and slipped oﬀ of the trading ﬂoor.
The skyscrapers of Canary Wharf are all connected by a vast underground
shopping center, which I suppose makes them all one enormous building, in a
way, and as I walked through these vast, wide, artiﬁcially lit hallways, from
takeaway restaurant to takeaway restaurant, I felt my sense of balance
returning. Something about the conversation with Rupert, if you could call it
that, had taken the air out of my lungs.
I hurried back to the trading ﬂoor, and wordlessly placed each trader’s
order on their desks beside them. When I came to Rupert I put down his
lunch, along with his change: a £10 note with a few coins piled on top.Rupert looked at the coins with that instinctive rapidity that people tend to
show when they hear money fall to the ground.
“What is that?”
“Erm…It’s your change.”
Rupert didn’t move or say anything. He was still staring at the pile of
coins. I felt like maybe I’d given the wrong answer so I tried something else.
“Erm…It’s eleven pounds seventy-four.”
I knew that it was £11.74. because I’d taken a quick note of how much
everyone’s order had cost, so as to make sure that Rupert got the right change.
Rupert opened his top drawer and slid the money all the way across his
desk and oﬀ the edge so it fell into the drawer. Then he turned to me as if he
was going to conﬁde in me, but, instead, looked at me with a ferocious
intensity that was impossibly out of proportion with anything like the
situation we were in.
“On this desk, we keep the change.”
I’d never heard such a thing in my life.
—
The next few days fell into a pattern. I would wake up in the morning and
take a shower with the rubber hose in the cold bath. I would get to the desk
extremely early—increasingly early as the days went on, in fact, for reasons
that I will shortly explain. Caleb had eventually taken pity on me, and set me
to work on some complicated and ultimately pointless spreadsheet, so I spent
a few hours every morning working out how to ﬁll an Excel sheet with pastel
colors in alternating rows. Once the morning rush was over, I would sit with
either Rupert or JB, whoever seemed happier to acknowledge my presence.
The truth was, it was always JB who seemed more keen, but I learned to
gauge Rupert’s subtle moods. Impressing these two would ultimately be my
passport to a millionaire lifestyle, so I devoted myself to making them tick.
Working with JB was easy. He just wanted an audience to listen to his
stories and jokes, and, in all honesty, they were usually a pleasure to listen to.
He wanted to hear about life in East London and pillow ﬂuﬃng at DFS andweekends with my dad watching Orient draw 0–0 with Dagenham and
Redbridge away in the snow. Rupert was more complicated. I soon learned
that there was nothing Rupert liked more than me being wrong. In fact, what
Rupert liked was not actually me being wrong, but me being wrong and then
fully and thoroughly accepting the blame for it, apologizing unreservedly and
devotedly, and then gathering my reserve and staring stoically into the mid
distance, absolutely committed to becoming a better man. Rupert liked this
so much that I made sure to do it frequently, and I resolved to be wrong far
more than I was ever right.
After a morning of this I would oﬀer to get lunch for everyone, it having
gone down so well on my ﬁrst day. Each trader would get something from a
diﬀerent restaurant, and making sure everyone’s order was correct and, in
fact, just carrying it all back to the oﬃce, was no mean feat, but it was a
simple way to show a basic capability and reliability and, to this day, I’m
convinced it was by far my most important role in that week on the desk. I
was initially hesitant to follow Rupert’s command to keep all the change, but
it had been delivered with such blinding, searing intensity that I felt I simply
had no choice but to do it. After a couple of days, Caleb commented that
these lunches were getting expensive, with no change coming back, but, when
he said it, he looked round at me as if I was his ﬁrstborn son or something,
and I knew then that somehow, impossibly, what I was doing must have been
right. Strange crowd this lot, I thought to myself. I was making like £20 a
day.
Through casual conversation I started to pick up strands of information
that helped me place people on the desk. I learned that Caleb, at twenty-eight,
was the youngest ever Managing Director on the trading ﬂoor (I had no idea
what a Managing Director, or “MD,” was, but it was clearly kind of a big
deal), and had been transferred to be head of the London desk quite recently,
after a successful career for Citi in Japan. I learned that Bill, the taciturn,
silver-haired Scouser in the corner, had been a big money hire from Halifax a
few years previously, but, much to Rupert’s chagrin and pleasure, had been
completely failing to turn in the results. I also learned that, unlike all of theother traders on the desk, Bill had never been to university. Perhaps that was
why he kept himself to himself.
In the afternoons, which were generally much quieter, Caleb would wander
over to my corner and check out the maths and impressive coloring of my
spreadsheet, and comment on my formulas. Caleb had an economics degree
from Stanford University in America, and, as such, had by far the closest
background to myself. He spoke the language of maths and numbers and
formulas, but, somehow, never at the expense of his charm. What Caleb
wanted was for me to catch quickly the logical and mathematical connections,
and the theoretical workings of the products on the desk. This, for once, was
in line with my actual training. Of all the people that I spoke to on the trading
ﬂoor, Caleb was the only one that I felt could really see through my “I
understand this” face. You felt, somehow, that he knew what you knew and
what you didn’t know. You felt that he really knew you.
There was one other trader on the desk who saw completely that I didn’t
know what I was doing, and that was Snoopy. I learned that Snoopy had not
come through the traditional graduate scheme, but instead had been hired as a
computer programmer, before being quickly promoted to trader by Caleb.
This probably explained why he had the constant air of a sixteen-year-old
trying to buy vodka. Snoopy didn’t come from a background in ﬁnance and
economics, and he had not worked on trading ﬂoors for long. As a result of
this, his mind had not yet become accustomed to the nodding of a hopelessly
lost man, and he knew instantly that I hadn’t a clue. Fortunately for me,
Snoopy had not a clue either.
God knows we hadn’t come from the same background, Snoopy and I.
Snoopy had grown up a world away, in a golf club somewhere in the idyllic
Oxfordshire countryside, next door to David Cameron. He descended from
seventeen consecutive generations of well-paid and trusted local doctors and
he had never gone to bed hungry (it showed). Somehow, in spite of our
diﬀerences, we formed an instant and close bond. I knew that Snoopy knew
nothing, and Snoopy knew that I knew nothing. I knew that Snoopy shouldn’t
have been there, and Snoopy knew that I shouldn’t have been there. We both
knew, on some, deep, instinctive level, that we were surrounded by absolutenutters, and that it was important that they didn’t ﬁnd out. We were
stowaways on a pirate ship headed toward buried treasure, and we just needed
to hold our nerve until we got there. Maybe, if we stuck around long enough,
we could get to that treasure before the rest of these madmen.
With the two of us somewhat separate from the rest of the desk in
Snoopy’s corner, I conﬁded at the end of the very ﬁrst day that I had sat at
some length with both JB and Rupert, and had barely understood a word of
what either of them had said.
“Listen mate,” said Snoopy, speaking quietly and leaning in
conspiratorially, “don’t worry about that mate. No one understands anything.
You see that guy over there?”
Snoopy gestured with his thumb over his left shoulder; he was indicating
the swarthy, deep-voiced Italian.
“That guy’s name is Lorenzo di Luca. He’s the stupidest guy I ever met.
All he does is go out womanizing. I’m not sure he even speaks English. The
other day, he turned up to work three hours late, and when Caleb asked him
why, all he did was shrug and say, “Swedish New Year.” The guy’s a complete
idiot. But he still makes millions for the desk. If that guy can do it, anyone
can do it. Don’t worry mate, we’ve got this, stay cool.”
I looked at Lorenzo di Luca. He was kind of handsome and, yeah, I
supposed that he did indeed look a little bit stupid. He was still laughing into
a headset in deep bass Italian. OK, I thought. Interesting.
Snoopy was still talking though. “Besides mate, you are never gonna learn
anything from JB and Rupert, they don’t know what they are doing. You
wanna actually learn something, you gotta speak to Bill.”
That name again, Bill. I looked over at him. He was still the same, hobbit-
like, ball-like, sitting in his chair looking out the window with his big brown
phone clamped between shoulder and ear. Everybody mentioned Bill, but I
hadn’t managed to speak to him. Every time I’d approached him he’d spun his
head around like a cat that had been caught licking itself and I’d quickly
walked oﬀ in some other direction.
OK, Bill. So here was the plan with Bill.I noticed Bill used to drink a lot of coﬀees. I asked Snoopy what coﬀee he
drank, and he said cappuccinos. So I got in the next morning at six thirty so
that I could have a cappuccino on Bill’s desk before he got in. Except Bill was
already there at six thirty. He was the only guy there on the whole desk.
Sitting there, tiny in the corner, all by himself in the dark. Motherfucker,
what time does this guy come in? At least he didn’t have his coﬀee yet, and he
wasn’t on the phone yet. I went up and asked him if I could get him a coﬀee.
Bill didn’t turn around but he slammed his ID card down onto the desk. You
could buy drinks with your card at a little coﬀee shop on the trading ﬂoor.
“Yeah go on then, and get one for yourself mate.”
I picked up the ID card. It had Bill’s little scowling face on it. It said
“WILLIAM DOUGLAS ANTHONY GARY THOMAS.”
The next day, Wednesday, I came in at ﬁve forty-ﬁve. Thank fuck the guy
wasn’t there yet. So I bought a cappuccino and put it on his desk. By ﬁve past
six Bill still wasn’t there, and the coﬀee must have been cold, so I threw it
away and bought another one. I did that again at about six ﬁfteen and luckily
Bill walked in just after. I didn’t want to look at Bill when he sat down and
found the coﬀee, coz I didn’t want him to see me looking at him. But he must
have sat down, and he called out,
“Thanks Gal,” in his thick Scouse accent.
I must have turned round like I was surprised and said, “Oh yeah, no
worries, Bill. No worries.”
The next day I came in at six and did the same thing.
The next day, Friday, was my last day on the desk. Bill came in already
with his own cappuccino. He put it down on my desk as he walked past.
“Thanks Gal. Come sit with me when you come back.”
I was in.
One more little story about Bill, just so you know him a little, and maybe
understand a bit more about why I wanted to impress him so much.
Bill was the Sterling trader, which meant he was the guy primarily in
charge of watching the UK economy, and on my second day on the desk,
which was a Tuesday, some data was coming out in the morning about the
UK. I can’t remember what it was now, inﬂation or something.Just before the data was coming out, the guys on the next desk, who were
actually sales guys, not traders, although I didn’t know that at the time, were
having a hell of a time, listening to music and laughing and dancing. That
kind of behavior was not unusual.
Bill, who, like me, was a good seven or eight inches shorter than the
average height of the giants on the trading ﬂoor, stood up and walked around
to the next desk, and asked them to turn the music down.
They did that, and Bill sat, again, watching and waiting, like a hawk, for
the data. The data must have been delayed or something, because after a few
minutes, the music was back and Bill was back round, a little more
adamantly, asking for the music to please be turned down.
Again the music was turned down, and again Bill was intently waiting.
After a few minutes, the music was back again. Bill didn’t get up. The
other desk was exactly opposite Bill, as in, the salesmen were sitting facing
him, but they were separated by the two huge walls of screens, both Bill’s and
their own. The wires from all the screens fed down into a central hole in the
desk itself between them, as did the wires for the speakers from which the
music was played.
Bill didn’t say anything. He simply opened his desk drawer and pulled out
a pair of scissors, and used them to snip the speakers’ wires. Calm as you
like. You wouldn’t have even guessed he had done anything. His gaze barely
broke from his screens.
The music, of course, stopped instantly, and it took a while for the sales
guys to realize what had happened. Eventually, of course, they did realize,
and the head of their desk, a large, blond-haired, big-nosed, unspeakably posh
English man named Archibald Quigley came barreling round shouting as if
ready to ﬁght.
Caleb, who had of course noticed what had happened, had to quickly
jump up out of his seat and physically stop him. Archie was shouting right in
his face.
Bill didn’t even blink. He was staring at the screens.
I thought he was a fucking legend.—
On my last day on the desk Rupert and Caleb had a surprise for me.
The two of them had been taking some sort of bizarre joy in my lunch
trips and had been making them more and more complicated each day. They
would ask for individual items from diﬀerent, distant restaurants, or peculiar
speciﬁc adjustments to be made to their food. They would ask me to get lunch
orders for friends dotted in random parts of the trading ﬂoor. Sometimes I
wondered if they even knew the people they were ordering for. I think they
were maybe trying to test if I could get it right. (I did, of course. It was the
only half-complicated thing that I had to do in the whole week of the
internship.) More than that, I think they just enjoyed seeing me sweat.
At ten thirty Caleb called me over.
“I’m getting lunch for the whole ﬂoor.”
He said it like it was nothing. But the trading ﬂoor was a big fucking place.
I didn’t ﬂap. He wanted me to ﬂap. I knew it. I just looked him back, right
in the eyes, and said to him,
“OK, no problem.”
He loved that.
It was a big operation. It would have been impossible to do it alone. I went
to each individual desk on the trading ﬂoor and explained to them what was
happening. It must have cost Caleb thousands of pounds. I had to convince
each of the managers of the individual desks to lend me their desk juniors for
an hour. It was the only way to get it to work. I wasn’t always successful in
doing that, and I must have carried at least a hundred burgers myself.
Looking back on it, I think that some sort of intended humiliation might have
been a part of it. But honestly, I didn’t give a shit. Just two years before that I
had been delivering papers at seven in the morning 364 days a year for £12 a
week. I still remember the day when bossman called me in after I delivered
the papers and said he was cutting my pay from £13 to £12. Sometimes, I
would put a big Sunday paper in the wrong house, and I would end up losing
money for the day. These guys were paying me £700 for a week to deliverfucking burgers. And they were my best chance of becoming a millionaire.
They could have made me clean the toilets if they wanted to.
By the time I ﬁnished delivering all of the burgers it was gone 2 p.m. I sat
down on my little corner station, exhausted, half leaning out into the aisle.
Rupert and Caleb both had their chairs turned round ninety degrees so that,
instead of looking at their computers, they were looking at me. I ignored
them.
“Hey Gazza!” shouted out Caleb. He was all the way at the other end of
the desk.
I turned round to look at him and saw his beaming smile poking over
Rupert’s shoulder. They were both leaning back in their chairs.
“You got a passport?”
I did have a passport because two years previously I’d thrown up all over
Tenerife with my friends to celebrate my A-levels.
“Go home and get it. You’re going skiing.”
—
I was on the tube to Stratford and I was texting my dad.
“Where is my passport?” I asked him.
“It’s in the drawer under my bed,” he replied.
It was in there, under his underwear.
Did you know, when people go skiing, they actually go right up to the tops
of the mountains? And when they are doing it, all around them they can see
all the other mountains, covered in snow. I didn’t know it was like that, but it
is like that. That’s what they do.
My mum texted me.
“Does that mean you got the job then?”
“I’m not sure. Probably.”
Then she asked me for money.
