1
I DIDN’T WANT TO GO home that day, I’m not really sure why. So I messaged my
girlfriend and I asked her if I could stay round at hers, and I took the Jubilee
Line over to northwest London.
It was cold that night, one of those frosty London nights where there’s no
clouds above you, and you can actually see a couple stars for once, and you
can feel how cold the universe is.
I didn’t do anything once I got there, it was like I couldn’t move. I just lay
on her bed in her tiny apartment. She used to have a part-time job hand-
drawing t-shirt designs to make money to pay for her bills while she was
studying fashion, and she’d stuck all the old drawings up onto the walls. It was
all horse skeletons and deer skeletons and other, anonymous skeletons, and I
lay there and I counted the skeletons as a tiny rotating portable heater cast
warm, dancing, orange shadows all over and across them and she padded
around in her cold, bare feet on the wood ﬂoor, preparing a dinner for us
both.
We’d spoken before about bonus day, and she’d known I’d been looking
forward to it. She’d told me that I didn’t have to tell her how much it turned
out to be, and as we sat, eating at her tiny little table, with sewing machines
and scraps of fabrics and dresses all pushed to the side, she didn’t know how
much I appreciated that. I don’t think she understood why I was being so
quiet though. I don’t think I understood either.
In the middle of the night I woke up and she was crying. It was loud and I
maneuvered her around so that she was below me and that I was above herand I looked down at her and asked what was wrong.
“Why didn’t you tell me? Why didn’t you tell me?”
She was speaking between sobs and she was staring up at me and I was
stroking her hair and I was trying to calm her. I hadn’t really decided who I
was going to tell yet. I didn’t know if I’d tell anyone. But I ﬁgured, at least,
that I owed it to her, or maybe I just wanted her to stop crying, or maybe I
just wanted to speak the words out in the real world, to see if they existed, to
see if they worked.
So I told her.
And she stopped crying, instantly, in a moment. And her face was totally
calm and unmoving, as if receiving a vision, and she was just looking,
silently, up at me, through me, beyond me, and in that moment she looked
very much like a young child. And her eyes seemed to grow until they
became enormous, and I could see the whole circles of her unmoving irises,
and the vast seas of white that seemed to open around them, and I’d never
seen eyes move like that before.
Straight away, I wished I’d never told her.
A few months later we broke up.
—
After that, I thought I should probably tell no one, but just that weekend my
mate Jalpesh called me up to play Pro Evolution round his mum’s house with
some old schoolfriends. Jalpesh was the guy who lost his job at Lehman in
the 2008 crisis, but since then he’d managed to get another job trading at
Deutsche Bank. A couple other of our friends had also managed to get jobs in
investment banks, although in roles that weren’t as glamorous as trading, and
as we passed around PlayStation controllers the conversation turned toward
bonuses.
Jalpesh had been given £6,000, and he was pretty happy with that. He
threw the question over to Hemal. Hemal had received only three. When
Mashﬁque got asked he said he’d got nothing. You could tell he was pretty
pissed oﬀ, but he was always pissed oﬀ.The whole time I didn’t say nothing. I was sitting there playing the game.
Eventually the question made its way round to me.
“What did you get Gaz? Did you get a bonus?”
I’d decided, of course, to tell no one. But I wasn’t really sure what to do.
Those guys in that room were some of my best friends. I’d known them for
over ten years, since we were kids. What could I do, you know? Was I going
to lie to them?
I decided, in the moment, just to say it, just to try it.
“I got three hundred and ninety-ﬁve thousand pounds.”
And you could feel it, the oxygen leaving the room. You could hear it, like
a gust of wind. And after that, ten seconds of silence, and then the plasticky
sound of a PlayStation controller, bouncing twice as it drops to the ﬂoor.
Things were never the same after that.
2
THERE WAS ONE GUY I still had to tell though. Harry Sambhi. Harry had to know.
I wasn’t gonna tell him the exact number, I’d seen the power of what that
could do. But I had to tell him that I’d gotten something, and that it was good.
Harry had known me since I was eight years old and he was four. I’d told him
about the ﬁrst time I’d kissed a girl, the ﬁrst time I’d gotten drunk, the ﬁrst
time I’d smoked weed. The kid looked up to me, you know? Besides, we were
in this together now. I had to give him something to run with.
So I got in my car on a Saturday morning and I drove out to Essex, to
Harry’s dad’s house. I didn’t tell him in advance that I was coming, but I got
to his place suﬃciently early that I knew he would have to be in.
I rang on the doorbell, Harry’s dad answered. I never really knew Harry’s
dad all that well. He was looking a bit worse for wear. He propped himself up
on the frame of the door and when I asked him if I could see Harry he was
scratching his ruﬄed hair and his stubbled chin as if he wasn’t quite sure of
the name.
Eventually the words fell into place for him, and he said Harry was
sleeping in the living room. I was confused about why Harry would be
sleeping in the living room instead of his bedroom, but while I was thinking
that, his dad had shuﬄed away up the stairs. I’d never been into Harry’s dad’s
house before. I walked into the now vacated dark hallway, and went through
to go look for Harry.
The living room was spartanly furnished. Fake wood ﬂoor, white walls,
television, old brown sofa. Although it was a bright winter morning, the darkred curtains were pulled tightly closed, and one single shard of light crept
between them to penetrate the gloom of the room.
Harry was lying face down on the sofa. I mean literally face down. His
entire face was plunged deeply into an old, dark brown pillow. I momentarily
wondered how he could breathe. His body was too long for the sofa, so both
of his feet were propped up by the sofa’s far arm, which gave him a vague
semblance of being in prayer. He was fully dressed: trousers; white work
shirt; one pair of comically enormous black shoes. One of his feet had
popped out at the heel, as if a cursory attempt had been made at removal but
the idea had not been followed through. His right arm hung crookedly down
to the ground, where his hand lay, bent ninety degrees at the wrist.
Despite Harry’s slovenly comportment, his appearance was only the
second most eye-catching thing in the room. The thing which immediately
caught one’s attention upon entering the space was not Harry’s heartfelt, fully
dressed prayer to the sofa, but what lay behind it, and above it, screaming
itself loudly and erratically from the white wall.
In huge, bright red, heavily painted letters, in a wild and oscillating hand,
stretching from one edge of the wall to the open door, were the words
HARRY KING IS CHAMPION SAMBHI
I stood for a moment, wordless, and I took in the sight. The lone shaft of
morning light cut across Harry’s waistline and onto the wall, pointing upward,
to the word “KING.” It was a work of art.
Harry stirred. A moan of muﬄed anguish escaped from the pillow.
I jostled Harry with my ﬁst on the side of his hip and I tried to lift his
head by the hair.
“Harry! What the fuck you doing Harry? Why the fuck you sleeping with
your shoes on?”
Harry lifted his heavy body up sideways and turned his face toward me
and smiled. The lines of the sofa pillow were imprinted on his cheeks.
Through cooperative eﬀort, we got Harry into a sitting position. He was
smiling and making noises that were not words. It was pretty clear that he was
still drunk. Eventually we got him speaking English, and I asked him the
questions I wanted to ask.“Harry man, what the fuck are you doing? Why you sleeping on the sofa?”
“Ohhh it’s…Oh don’t worry about that mate. Jussst…out with the lads.
Lads from work!”
He pointed to the left and then to the right when he said this. His words
were a jumble of slurs.
“Why you still wearing your shoes?”
He grinned at me and kicked his right shoe oﬀ. It nearly hit the telly. He
kicked his left foot a couple times, but the shoe didn’t come oﬀ. He giggled a
bit and gave up.
“Harry. Do you know that you’ve written HARRY KING IS CHAMPION
SAMBHI in massive fucking red painted letters on your fucking wall? Where
the fuck did you get the red paint from!? It don’t make no fucking
grammatical sense!”
Harry looked surprised for just a moment, and he twisted round to look at
his work. His surprise seemed to pass quickly and he paused for a while to
admire it, then he read the words, slowly, back to me.
“HARRY. KING. IS. CHAMPION. SAMBHI.”
He turned back around and was nodding contemplatively, and he rubbed
his temple with his hand.
“You’re right mate. It don’t make no grammatical sense. I think KING and
CHAMPION should be swapped around. But don’t worry about that mate. I
did that fucking months ago. It’s been there for ages. Don’t you like it? I think
it’s good!”
And so, I moved out from my parents’ house, and I rented a ﬂat in an old
converted matchstick factory in Bow, in inner East London, where all the
Grime MCs came from, and I took Harry Sambhi, who was about to turn
nineteen, over there and he lived with me. After that, we were a team.
Then I had to learn how to cook.
—
But none of that matters. None of any of all of that matters. I knew that the
moment I stepped back on the desk. I was embarrassed that I’d shown myemotions, and I was embarrassed that Billy had seen. When I got myself up
oﬀ of that little patch of grass in Canary Wharf, that day back then after that
bonus, and marched myself back onto the trading ﬂoor, I knew Billy was
looking at me on my right side, and over on my left side JB and Snoopy were
probably looking at me too. Billy stood up and walked round to my left, again
shielding me from the rest of the desk, as he had done before. He leaned in
and asked,
“Are you all right Gal?”
I didn’t look. I just said to him, “Yeah. I’m all right. What’s the trade?”
—
Because that’s what we’re doing now. All we’re doing now is trading. We
gonna make a hundred million dollars, and we’re going to be millionaires.
How do we do that?
Now as you know, the trading story thus far has been simple: we lent
dollars out long term, using FX swaps, and we borrowed the dollars back
every day. That was a very reliable earner. But good trades are like oranges,
even the best ones will run out of juice.
In the aftermath of 2008, everybody needed dollars. Nobody had them
and we did, so we made a ton of money. But that money does not last forever.
It didn’t take long before central banks all over the world realized that a lack
of available dollars to borrow was risking the bankruptcy of banking systems
worldwide, and relatively quickly the US Federal Reserve started to lend US
dollars to central banks in other countries. They did that through FX swaps,
the exact same product that we were trading on the desk. The international
central banks who borrowed those dollars lent them on to the commercial
banks in their respective countries, and before long, what was once a life-
threatening desperation for US dollars became merely an impending need.
That cut into our margins. Not only that, but over the course of 2009
governments and central banks the world over lent so much cheap money, and
bought so many of the banking system’s bad assets, that it started to become
clearer and clearer that the banking system wasn’t going to blow up.On one hand, that was great. That was exactly what we had been betting
on and it meant that our bets all paid oﬀ. It was one of the reasons that I, like
everyone else in STIRT trading, made so much money in 2009. On the other
hand, it was bad. It meant the gravy train was no longer running. As the
global need for dollars became less and less urgent, and it became more and
more obvious that the global banking system would survive, more and more
traders and banks entered the game of lending dollars, and what was once an
extremely lucrative business started to become less and less proﬁtable. No
longer could we lend dollars out at 2 percent and borrow them back at zero.
We’d be lucky to get 1 percent.
What compounded this misfortune for me, at the beginning of 2010, when
I had just decided to become the world’s greatest trader, was that I was no
longer up twelve million dollars. You see, when the year rolls over, and you’ve
made your bonus on your twelve bucks, that twelve bucks is no longer yours.
The clock resets and you are now back to zero.
This is a problem for a trader, and I’ll explain to you why.
Trading isn’t a free lunch. There’s no such thing as a trade that makes you
a lot of money without you taking a signiﬁcant amount of risk. That’s another
good rule for life—if anyone ever tells you they’ve got one, cut that person
out of your life.
So it was with the lending of dollars. It was risky. Even though it always
made a load of money in the long term, it swung around a lot every day.
While it was a near-certain winner over six months, you couldn’t guarantee to
win every week, or even every month.
That’s ﬁne when you’re on twelve million dollars, but it’s a problem when
you’re on zero, because if you lose money when you are on zero, you can end
up in the dreaded place, in the red.
Being in the red means you are down money on the year. It means that
every day, when that spreadsheet gets sent out to every trader, with every
trader’s name and PnL on it, your PnL comes up as a little red number (in
brackets).
You do not want to be a little red number in brackets. Trust me.When you are a little red number in brackets, your boss stands behind you.
He asks you about every trade you put on. He speaks to his boss about your
trades. Everyone wonders if your trades are actually good, or if you just made
them up (they are all made up, by the way). You have to send a little email
with your trade rationale to your boss, and your boss’s boss. You have to tell
them how much loss you are willing to take on that trade before you will
“stop out” (crystallize the loss by closing the trade). Worst of all, sometimes
your boss, or your boss’s boss, will actually stop your trades themselves.
Nobody wants to have their trades stopped by their boss. You might as well
have your mum wipe your arse.
So no, being in the red was not an option, and that limited your moves
when you’re on zero. Billy did not like to be on zero, so Billy was never on
zero. Now, I am not going to point any ﬁngers, and I am not going to make
any insinuations, but what I will say is that Billy always made ten million
dollars in the ﬁrst week of every year. I don’t know how that happened and I
don’t want to know. All I know is I didn’t know how to do that, so I started
every year on zero, like normal human beings.
Starting every year on zero means you have to start small. This was a
problem for me because in the coming year, 2010, I wanted to make a
hundred million dollars. It was also a problem because my one big trade,
lending dollars, was now considerably less proﬁtable and more risky than it
had been in the whole of 2009. That was not just a problem because it made
it harder for me to make money—after all, if the trade was less proﬁtable, I
could always just double the size of the trade—it was a problem because it
made it considerably harder for me, for us all, to take massive trades.
The trade that I had taken in 2009 was enormous for a ﬁrst-year trader. It
deﬁnitely should not have been allowed. I had gotten away with it through
some combination of negligence, goodwill, and the fact that my boss spent
most of his time stacking coins into neat piles. More than anything, it had
been because the traders around me had been taking so much risk, and
making so much money, that I’d managed to slip under the radar.
But at this point, people would have noticed. Firstly, in order to make PnL
even at the same rate of the previous year, I would have had to double the sizeof what was already an enormous trade for a trader of twenty-three.
Secondly, all of us now had to cut our risks. That meant smaller trades, and
smaller PnLs all round. I couldn’t hide in their shadows anymore.
And that is why at the beginning of 2010, having swallowed my tears on
the green grass of Canary Wharf’s Canada Square, and sitting back on my
trading desk with the new ambition of becoming Citi’s top trader, I stared
into my screens and asked Bill to tell me, “What’s the trade?”
—
Because Billy always made money, and Billy always had a trade.
The rest of us, I’ll be honest, we were monkeys, we were philistines. We
lent dollars and we took in the proﬁts and we went out and bought apartments
that didn’t have no doors.
But Billy was diﬀerent. Billy was an artist. He was an artist and he was an
addict.
By the beginning of 2010 I had sat next to Billy for nearly a year, and I’d
started to appreciate what he did.
Billy lent dollars. Of course Billy lent dollars. Lending dollars was a great
trade and if there was a great trade anywhere on the table, Billy took it. But
Billy didn’t just lend dollars, he’d lend pounds as well. Billy knew everything
about pounds. Billy knew the personalities and habits of every single member
of the Bank of England Monetary Policy Committee, the “bunch of
knobheads” (Billy’s own words) who set the UK interest rates. Billy knew
everything about them. He probably knew what times they went to bed.
Billy lent other things too, but he didn’t lend everything. Lending
everything, Billy said, was “pig on pork.” Let’s talk about what “pig on pork”
is.
When you lend a currency, you are betting that the interest rate will go
down. The way it works is this: when you get a loan, you go to the bank and
you ask for a loan for, let’s say, the next ﬁve years. Now, at this point in time,
the bank does not actually know what the market interest is going to be over
the next ﬁve years. That is because the interest rate is set every single monthby the Central Bank, and your bank does not at this point know what they are
going to do. Your bank will then come to someone like us, the traders, the
risk takers, and ask us to take the risk, the gamble, on what the interest rate is
going to be.
At that time, at the beginning of 2010, interest rates all over the world,
including in the UK, were pretty much 0%. But everyone thought
(incorrectly) that they were going to go up. Let’s say that the traders think
rates will go up gradually over the next ﬁve years from 0% to 5%, meaning
the average rate over the period will be 2.5% . They might oﬀer to lend your
bank money at 2.55%, who will turn round and lend you money at 2.8% .
Everyone’s taking their little bit of cut.
But once the trader has promised to lend your bank money at 2.55% , in
what situation does he make money?
The answer is that the trader makes money if interest rates go up less than
expected. If rates don’t actually go up, but stay at 0%, the trader—who has
agreed to lend money at 2.55%—can ultimately fund your ﬁve-year, 2.8%
mortgage by borrowing cash every day at 0%. He makes himself the 2.55%,
and your bank takes its 0.25% cut. Magic—free money!
Of course, it’s never really free money. If rates were to go up much
quicker than expected—say for example up to 5% instantly and then staying
there for the whole ﬁve years—the trader could be stuck funding his 2.55%
loan at 5%, and taking the hit.
The lesson here is that lending money is betting that rates will stay low.
And when do rates stay low? In general, they stay low if the economy is
weak. This is because of the way that central banks set rates. They cut rates
when they think that the economy is weak, and they raise them when they
think that the economy is strengthening or inﬂation is overheating. They cut
rates to try and get you to spend money, and they raise them to try and get
you to stop.
This is why Bill didn’t lend everything. Economies are very connected:
they tend to be strong or weak at the same time. If US rates stayed low, that
meant the US economy was weak, which meant the UK and European
economies would probably also be weak, which meant that UK and Europeanrates would also stay low. Lending dollars, and lending pounds and lending
euros were, to some degree, the same trade. Or, rather, they were highly
correlated trades. If you did all those trades together, you might think that
you have three diﬀerent trades. In reality you kind of have the same trade
three times. This is what Bill called “pig on pork.”
Billy never had “pig on pork.” Bill built palaces of culinary balance. First,
he would start with his favorite trade, the best trade in the market at the time.
That’s the base of the palace. Then Bill would ask himself, what’s the risk to
this trade? As an example, Bill knew that the risk to lending dollars was
further collapse in the global banking system. He would then look at all the
trades that would do well if the banking system collapsed, and pick which one
of them was likely to do well even if the banking system didn’t collapse. He’d
add that trade to his portfolio, and then he’d make money either way.
He’d continue building his portfolio up like this. What real-world situation
is a risk to my bundle of trades? What good trades are there that would do
really well in that scenario? In that way he built up a palace of trades in which
every risk was covered. That’s why Billy always made money. Whatever
tragedy struck, whatever the shock to the system, Bill had some sort of ace to
cover it. He seemed to make money whatever way.
Doing this was not easy. I tried to do it, but you needed to know
everything about everything. I couldn’t do it. I couldn’t be Bill.
—
Snoopy knew Billy was the best. Snoopy was a smart cat. Snoopy tried to be
Bill but he couldn’t do it either. Bill had been getting into work at 6 a.m. and
curling up into a little gray ball and speaking through his hand on the phone
for eleven hours whilst betting on the horses on his ninth screen for twenty-
ﬁve years. We were still trying to ﬁgure out how to take that place over, me
and Snoopy, and we spoke for hours about how to be Bill. But we couldn’t.
We were Snoopy and me.
We settled on a second-best strategy: lend as many dollars as we could get
away with and piggyback on Bill for every trade we could catch.Bill’s big bets were always on the Monetary Policy Committee. The bunch
of knobheads at the Bank of England. Billy hated and he loved those people.
He viewed them as everything he wasn’t: privileged, self-important, well-
educated, prestigious, powerful and, ultimately, stupid. If they sneezed, Billy
knew before they did. He made a ton of money from it. And he fucking loved
that.
You could make money betting on individual MPC meetings. Bill always
did. Every time. Let’s say the UK interest rate is 1% and there’s a meeting
coming up. Everyone thinks they will cut to 0.75% , but Bill somehow knows
they’ll cut to 0.5%. You go out and lend a load of cash at 0.75%  for the exact
set of dates relevant to the meeting, then you borrow it back at 0.5% . Easy
cash. What is great about this money is you don’t even have to wait for it. You
make a ton of money, easily, on the day. Billy would dust his hands loudly
and quietly say, “Bing bang bosh.” Or he’d turn to me and say, “Get up them
stairs!” I used to love it when he said that, because usually I’d be on the trade
too. I’d turn to Snoopy, and he’d be smiling like a kid.
—
So that was the plan, and it worked pretty well. Do that to build up a little bit
of money and grow my reputation, and then use that money to amp up the
dollar trade. Grow that trade slowly at ﬁrst, and then quickly, and by the end
of the year, make some big cash. Simple plan.
In the afternoons, when the trading would die down, I would go over to
Waitrose and I’d buy some ingredients, and I’d go home and I’d try and cook
dinner for me and Harry. It was going pretty well. I did a good pork stir-fry
with plum sauce. We’d play football once a week, I’d go to the gym. It was
nice, it was like having a little family.
3
BUT THEN, THIS CRAZY THING happened.
I’d been working the PnL up very gently for the ﬁrst few months of the
year, and by the middle of April I was up nearly four bucks. That was a rate
of a buck a month. Not so exceptional compared to the twelve bucks oﬀ the
back half of 2009, but it was pretty much the run rate I was shooting for. All
of the traders were making way less money that year, so four bucks in April
put me, for the ﬁrst time, right in the middle of the pack, instead of at the
bottom.
With four bucks in the bank, I was teasing the risk up just a little. Lending
a little more dollars, nothing big though, very gentle. I was saving the big risk
for later in the year.
One evening, I cooked a Bolognese for me and Harry, and we cracked
some ciders and put the Champions League semi-ﬁnal on, just as the sun was
setting. We had a nice ﬂat back there in Bow. The old factory was enormous
and sprawling, a huge red-brick block dropped right from the sky, with
soaring high red-brick towers and smokestack chimneys that hadn’t been used
for about a hundred years. Back in Victorian days, that factory had made
more matchsticks than the rest of the world put together. We were slung
down on the ﬁrst ﬂoor, which meant the whole factory soared up and
surrounded us with its bricks and its windows and its gardens, and we were
level with the branches of the trees, which around us were starting to bloom.
Me and Harry were in the same line of work now, so we’d both be up
before the sun. From Bow, I was close enough to the oﬃce that I could cycleto work, down the veins of East London every morning in a blue ski jacket
and Onitsuka Tigers, past the huge puppy dog mural of Chrisp Street Market,
past the old-fashioned, yellow, low-slung warehouse of Billingsgate Fish
Market, and up the steep ramp that takes you into Canary Wharf.
On the days that Harry didn’t have to go out drinking after work, which
was a little less than half the time, we’d both get home at around ﬁve thirty.
When there was football on TV, we’d watch it together. Otherwise, we’d
watch The Only Way Is Essex. I’d go to bed at nine thirty. Sometimes, in the
morning, Harry would be hungover, and I’d have to drop him to the station on
this little black Vespa I bought with my bonus money.
That evening, just as the game was starting, I got a call. It was from an
American number. I picked it up. It was the Frog.
The Frog, in case you don’t remember, was the most senior trader on the
New York STIRT desk. He traded Swiss francs as well. Swiss francs and
Japanese yen. I reached out for the remote and muted the telly and signaled to
Harry to shut the fuck up.
The Frog was super excited, talking real quickly. I’d still never met the
guy, but he was being real personable, calling me Gazza, like Caleb used to.
Apparently, he’d been to see the SNB: the Swiss National Bank, the
Central Bank for Switzerland. I was surprised by this because I didn’t even
know that the Frog was in Europe, but he didn’t stop talking, so I didn’t get
time to ask.
The Frog said that the SNB was gonna do something big, they were gonna
keep the Swiss interest rates high. This was news to me; it would have been
news to everyone. The economic carnage of the time had led to a huge
increase in the value of the Swiss currency, which has been viewed as a safe
haven at least since the Second World War, and everybody thought that the
SNB would push rates aggressively lower, even negative, to discourage people
from buying too many Swiss francs and pushing their value up.
The Frog said that wasn’t gonna happen. The Frog said that rates were
gonna stay high. The Frog was gonna make a big pile of cash, and he wanted
me to make some cash too.
At least that’s what the Frog told me.The Frog had gone and borrowed a ton of francs. He’d done it in the Swiss
FX swap. Now, remember, when you borrow one currency in an FX Swap
you lend the other, so this was the “lending dollars” trade that I’d been doing
for nearly a year now—the trade that had made my career so far, and the
trade that I’d wanted to ramp up. The Frog said that he’d done an absolute ton
of the one-year trade. The Frog said that I should take some.
Now, if I had been older at that time, or wiser, or maybe just less greedy,
the following thought would probably have passed through my mind:
“Am I, Gary Stevenson, twenty-three years old, wearing Leyton Orient
shorts with a small Bolognese stain on them, drinking cider and watching the
Champions League semi-ﬁnal with a nineteen-year-old burgeoning alcoholic,
the kind of person who receives absolute gold dust, monetizable information
on my mobile phone, from a person that I have never met?”
But alas, I was neither older nor wiser.
“All right, I’ll do two hundred bucks.”
The Frog was real happy about that. I unmuted the telly, and we watched
the rest of the game.
—
Two hundred million dollars is not a massive trade. I’d done bigger trades in
the past. When it comes to interest rates—that is, when it comes to borrowing
and lending—what matters is not only the size of the loan, but also the length
of it, and the Frog had sold me in for $200 million of one-year loans. One
year is quite a long time, but still $200 million’s not massive. The thing is, I’d
already had this trade on, in decent size, and I’d been pushing it bigger and
bigger as the year was going on. I’d been very methodical about that, very
gradual, I had it in the size that I wanted. When I took the Frog’s $200
million, it made the trade a big chunk bigger. Bigger than it should really have
been.
Thing is, you know, it was a guaranteed winner. Lending dollars paid out
every time. Snoopy once told it to me like this: “When it comes to trading
interest rates, only two things matter. The interest rate now, in the market,and what the interest rate is actually going to be, when the time comes. If the
interest rate in the market is higher than the real interest rate is going to be,
you lend it, it’s as simple as that, easy money.”
We all knew that the dollar rates in the FX swaps were too high. With this
Frog trade, I had also borrowed some Swiss francs, but at a super super low
rate, and the Frog was sure that that rate would go up.
Something didn’t feel right about it. But I let it run for a week or so.
I shouldn’t have.
—
It was about a week after the Frog Trade. It was May now. I was on the desk.
It was the afternoon.
As usual, it was a quiet time on the London STIRT desk. By the afternoon,
the US team are at their desks in New York, and most of the prices get asked
to them instead of us. We loll about. Billy makes bets on the horses. JB
slouches deep in his chair and tells stories while chewing on toothpicks.
Chuck stares into the mid distance. Maybe he’s meditating. Me and Snoopy
mine Billy for trades, Spengler’s on the phone to his mum. Nothing much
happens. By May, the sun’s shining high through the windows right up until
the time we go home. I sit right by the window now, so it’s warm. When
you’re up four bucks and looking up to ﬁve, it can feel pretty idyllic.
During those afternoons, I would just ﬂick through my positions and
trades. I was still using Spengler’s spreadsheets, trying to work out what days
were cheap and what days were expensive, making sure my positions lined up.
Sometimes sales guys would try and book trades into your book at the wrong
price, to steal a bit of money, so I’d scroll through all my individual trades
and try to ﬁnd any bad ones. I learned that from Rupert.
That day I was up $70,000, so it was a good day. I hadn’t done anything
special. I had the big dollar position and, as usual, it was slowly just grinding
my way.
I was on autopilot, checking the trade blotter, refreshing it, checking my
position, refreshing it, checking my daily PnL, refreshing it.The PnL showed down $300K.
That wasn’t a problem, that happened sometimes. Gremlins in the system.
I refreshed it again. It was still there. Down $300K .
The PnL calculation needed a source feed to value your position. It needed
to know what the market prices were at all times, so that it could calculate
what your position was worth. As a source, it would use the “broker
screens”—a list of the current prices of all the diﬀerent FX swaps of all the
diﬀerent maturity lengths kept constantly updated by the brokers. It made
sense to feed from the brokers, because the brokers were constantly hearing
prices from all of the traders. They were the best placed to know what the
prices were at any point in time.
The brokers had to constantly update these screens whenever the market
moved, and sometimes they fat ﬁngered one of the numbers and put in a typo,
and it would throw your whole PnL oﬀ. I ﬁgured that must have happened.
The particular broker feed that was used to value my Swiss FX swaps position
was Morley’s screen, the broker I’d used to put on that big Swiss trade back in
2009. I pulled his screen up.
His one-year price had jumped massively to the left—higher dollar rates,
lower franc rates. I saw this and thought it must be the typo. Then I scrolled
through the other maturities—the three months, the six months, the nine
months. He’d moved them all massively to the left. You wouldn’t expect that
for a typo. I ﬂicked up the switch to Morley.
“What’s going on Morley? Why you moved your one year down to minus
forty? What’s going on?”
There was a bit of a delay before Morley answered, which was unusual.
When he did answer, he was trying to sound casual, but I could tell he was
ﬂustered. The gaps between his sentences were too short.
“You all right, Gal yeah I can’t seem to get any prices I’m not sure what’s
happening I can’t seem to get no left-hand sides.”
I ﬂicked Morley’s switch down and ﬂicked up the next switch, a diﬀerent
Swiss franc broker at a diﬀerent company.
“Where’s one year?”Another unusually long pause. Then a long sound of cockney
prevarication.
“Ayyeeeyaaaeeyeeeeaah we can’t seem to get no left-hand side mate. We
probably get minus ﬁfty.”
This was bad.
FX swaps get quoted as a “left” and a “right” price, rather than a “buy” and
a “sell” price. That’s because in both cases you are lending one currency and
borrowing another, so there’s not really a “buy” and a “sell.” In US
Dollar/Swiss Franc FX swaps, the left-hand side was the lending of dollars
and the borrowing of francs. There were no left-hand sides. That meant
nobody wanted to lend dollars. I had lent an awful lot of dollars and, over
time, would need to borrow them back. Morley had moved his screen down
to minus forty-ﬁve. I refreshed my PnL again. It was now minus $600K . That
was more than I’d ever lost in a day. Much more.
“Morley, what the fuck’s going on?”
Another long pause. At least it felt long to me.
“All right mate, mate, I think I’ve worked it out. The SNB’s put something
up on their website. Something about a trade in the three months. Here, I’ll
send you a link on the IB chat.”
IB chat is like an internet messaging service for dickheads. The message
popped up on my screen and I clicked the link. The link took me, as
promised, to the Swiss National Bank’s website. It was a simple, clean,
minimalist page, with a short paragraph of text written at ﬁrst in, presumably,
Swiss-German and then in English. In the bottom corner was the SNB’s
simple, clean, minimalist logo.
The English said something along the lines of, “The Swiss National Bank
will be oﬀering Swiss francs via the three-month USDCHF FX swap at a rate
of minus 35. For transactions, please call this number.”
I sat and looked at the website for a bit. It was like some sort of practical
joke. Central Bank monetary policy was not normally conducted like this.
Usually, Central Banks announce policies at meetings, they hold press
conferences. They don’t just fucking upload it to their website like it’s a
fucking MySpace.I pulled up Spengler’s spreadsheet. The price of an FX swap is determined
from the interest rate diﬀerential between two currencies. So, if you stick in
the price and one of the interest rates, you can back out the implied interest
rate for the other currency. The implied rate at which the Swiss National
Bank was lending Swiss francs was minus 4.5%. NEGATIVE FOUR POINT
FIVE PERCENT.
I turned to my right and looked at Bill. He had his feet propped up on the
bin and was reading a copy of the Racing Post. I looked over my shoulder at
Chuck. He was staring through his screens with platonic indiﬀerence. I
picked up my big brown handphone that was wired into the terminal and I
called up the number.
A very polite-sounding woman said something in what I suppose must
have been German.
“Hi, my name’s Gary Stevenson, I’m the Swiss franc FX swaps trader at
Citibank in London. Is this the line for the three-month FX swaps?”
I was covering my mouth with my hand so that no one would notice.
“Yes, this is the line for the three-month FX swaps, would you like to do
some FX swaps?”
“Erm…Is the price minus thirty-ﬁve?”
“Yes, the price is minus thirty-ﬁve. How much would you like to do?”
“I don’t know, how much can I do?”
“There is no limit as to the size.”
I looked round at Chuck again.
“Erm…I’ll call you back.”
I hung up.
—
Negative 4.5% is a very low interest rate. No country has ever had negative
4.5% interest rates before. No country has ever had them since.
I pulled a piece of paper from my desk drawer. Important maths like this
has to be done by hand. When I lent the dollars out, and borrowed the francs,
the expected interest rate on both had been pretty much zero. But I was stillgetting about 1.1% premium on the dollars. Remember it’s the diﬀerential
that matters—I’ve lent dollars out for 1.1%  MORE than I’ve borrowed the
francs. To cover the trade, I need to borrow those dollars back (and lend
those francs back out) at a lower diﬀerential. I make money if the dollar
interest rate goes down (as of course, it always did) or if the Swiss rate went
up.
OK, let’s be optimistic. Let’s assume that I can borrow the dollars back at
zero, like I’d expected. What does it mean if I need to lend the Swiss out at
minus 4.5? That’s a diﬀerential of 4.5%. I got in at 1.1, so I’m losing 3.4. I
had, at that point, something equivalent to about 1.2 billion dollars in the one-
year trade. Losing 3.4% on 1.2 billion dollars of one year, that was…
$40,800,000. That was the most I could lose on the trade, realistically. Yeah,
that would be bad though. That would be really bad.
You might be thinking, “Well, just call the SNB back and get the fuck out
of the trade,” but if you think that, you don’t understand what’s happening.
I’ve lent dollars and borrowed francs, and the SNB are oﬀering to borrow
dollars and lend francs, at a much much cheaper rate than I ever paid to
borrow them. In unlimited size. I can’t get out of the trade with them. They’re
trying to do the same trade that I need to do. At the moment, there’s no left-
hand sides in the market.
I can’t get out of the trade with anyone.
I can’t lie. There was a moment here where my heart tightened in my chest
and all the hairs on my arms stood on end.
I know there are guys, like my best friends, who would have panicked and
scrambled and gotten out of there the minute they realized that they could
lose forty million dollars.
But I didn’t.
I got to admit the truth. It turned me on.
—
You can’t keep rates at negative 4.5%. It’s not possible. It’s too low.The thing about money is, you can take it out of the bank. You can hide it
under your bed. You can bury it in the garden. And when you do that, you get
0%. Why the fuck you gonna take negative 4.5 when you can get 0 with it
under your pillow?
Of course, you are not a bank. Banks themselves do not have regular bank
accounts. They can’t withdraw their cash and hide it under their beds.
Commercial banks themselves have accounts with the Central Banks, and, if
the SNB had wanted to, they could have cut the interest rate on those
accounts to negative 4.5.
But they hadn’t done that. The SNB were still paying 0 on any cash held by
commercial banks, whilst simultaneously oﬀering to lend Swiss francs out at
negative 4.5 via the three-month FX swap.
What that meant was, I didn’t have to take the loss. Surely. Swiss francs
had become unbelievably negative in the three-month swap, and they were
getting negative in the longer-term swaps, but day to day I could still lend the
francs out at 0.
I remembered what Snoopy taught me: all that matters is the rate now and
the rate at the end. In the gap between those two things is where you make
money. I had bet on a diﬀerence of 1.1 falling to zero, and it was expanding
now to 4.5. But all I had to do was wait and it would come back to zero. It
had to. Didn’t it?
I wanted to do more.
I looked again at Bill. He was on the phone to the bookies. I got out of my
chair and I turned round to Chuck.
“Chuck, I’m down six hundred grand.”
Chuck emerged from his meditation slowly, and he greeted me with a
warm smile.
“What happened?”
“The SNB put something up on their website, they’re lending Swiss out in
the three-month FX swap at negative 4.5.”
“Negative 4.5!?!?!”
That wasn’t Chuck who answered, it was Snoopy. He’d been booking a
holiday to the Maldives, but it seemed I’d caught his attention.Chuck was stroking his chin. He hadn’t gotten out of his chair but he’d
swung it round to face me.
“What are you gonna do?”
“I wanna do more.”
Chuck thought that was real funny. Billy had ﬁnished his gambling and
was looking straight through me, and JB was watching as well. Spengler had
his phone to his ear but was quietly staring my way, and in the silence of
Chuck’s contemplation I could hear the faint voice of Spengler’s mother
speaking Flemish.
“Why?”
“They haven’t done anything to the overnight market. We can still place
Swiss francs at 0 percent. Even if the three-month market stays at negative
four and a half, we can just roll them down and lend them out every day.”
“I wanna do some.”
That was Snoopy. Snoopy was in.
“What if they cut the overnight rate?”
“There’s no way. They can’t cut the overnight rate to negative 4.5. The
banking system would collapse.”
“I’m in.”
That was JB. He was still eating a toothpick. With that he turned back to
his screens.
Chuck was still thinking. He didn’t look at me and he thought for a long
time. “OK. You can do it. Good luck.”
So Snoopy was in, JB was in, I was in.
I had about twenty times as much as anyone else.
Billy wasn’t in.
—
So what the fuck was happening here?
The Swiss National Bank were taking action to protect their currency. Not
to stop their currency from going down, but to stop it from going up. If your
currency goes up everything gets too expensive for foreigners. Your exportsbecome non-competitive and your exporting businesses can struggle. The
SNB had already brought their oﬃcial interest rate down to zero and they
wanted to try something ﬂash. For some reason, and I’ll never know the real
reason, they chose this crazy move in the FX swap market.
Lending Swiss francs for minus 4.5% in the three-month FX swap is
basically cutting the interest rate on three-month loans to minus 4.5%. But
they were still accepting daily deposits from commercial banks at 0%. This
seemingly created an opportunity for “arb.” Arbitrage is when you can do a
set of diﬀerent trades that cancel each other out and make a free proﬁt at the
end. In this case, you borrow a load of dollars, at 1% or whatever, exchange
them for Swiss francs with the SNB at a 4.5%  diﬀerential, and then leave the
Swiss francs with the SNB every day for 0%. That leaves you with 3.5% .
The problem with arbitrage is that it’s almost never risk free. If it was risk
free, then it wouldn’t exist. Someone would do it and keep doing it until the
prices moved back into line and all the proﬁts disappeared. The second
problem is that arb requires you to do a lot of diﬀerent trades, and on the
STIRT desk we were only allowed to do the FX swaps. We weren’t allowed to
just go out and borrow dollars, we weren’t allowed to lend francs to the SNB.
Trades like that were managed on another desk.
So I had to just do the FX swaps for longer periods, like three months and
one year, and hope that I could lend the Swiss francs out every day, for a day
at a time, at zero. Hopefully other traders, who were actually able to actually
leave the francs with the SNB for 0, would pay me something close to zero
for them.
The risk to that trade was so obvious that even Chuck had noticed it. What
if the SNB were to slash the rate that they paid on overnight deposits of Swiss
francs? They had already done something totally mental to the three-month
FX swap market—what if they were to do something crazy to the daily
interest rate too?
The reason that I gave to Chuck was that it would cause the banking
system to collapse. My logic behind it was this:
Minus 4.5% is an extremely negative rate. If the SNB were to force Swiss
Commercial banks to pay 4.5% on all their Swiss franc deposits, the bankswould have to pass that on to customers. But there was no way customers
would accept taking a 4.5% annual cut from all of their savings. They’d take
all their cash out of the banks. If everyone takes their money out of the bank
simultaneously, it causes a bank run. The banking system would collapse.
At least I hoped it would. Otherwise I was gonna be fucked.
Looking back, I honestly don’t know if my logic was good. Since then,
negative interest rates have become common in most of Western Europe,
although never anything close to negative 4.5. Maybe I was right that negative
4.5% is an impossible interest rate. Maybe I just wanted to believe that
because I wanted to make my money back.
Anyway, here’s what happened.
By the time I got back to my seat I was already down $800,000. But I’d
gotten myself into the mindset that that was actually a good thing. Better
entry levels for me to lend even more dollars, and it meant I could get Snoopy
and JB in at good levels as well.
I went home that day and I didn’t say nothing to no one. I went swimming
for a long time.
The next day the markets edged against me, but only a little. I lost just
over $200,000. That brought my total losses up to just over a million and
brought my PnL for the year down to just over $3,000,000. I felt that the
relatively calmer markets were a good sign, vaguely reassuring. I reported that
to Chuck and to Snoop and JB. I went home and I started looking through my
old LSE textbooks to see if there were any sections about negative interest
rates. There weren’t.
The next day was not calm. The market fell through the ﬂoor. I lost two
and a half million dollars. $2,500,000. In a single day. Snoopy and JB maybe
lost a couple hundred grand between them. My total PnL was under one
million dollars now. Chuck didn’t say much, but he started standing behind
me a lot.
“What do you think’s going to happen?”
“It will come back. It’s gonna come back.”
I put on more.—
That evening Harry had invited some of my mates over for pizza and beers
and Pro Evo. I had lost 3.5 million dollars in the previous three days. There
were about six or seven of my good friends from high school there. Busting
jokes. Passing around slices of pizza and PlayStation controllers. And I wasn’t
there.
I was there, I mean, but I wasn’t there. I was down three point ﬁve million
dollars, nought point six million dollars left. How much of a percentage move
can you take before that will hit zero? What will change if you go into the
red? What team you gonna play as? Classic England. I always played as
Classic England. Bobby Charlton, he could score from anywhere.
Is it really true that minus 4.5% interest rates are impossible? Is it really
true? Don’t say that to your friends. Ask Andreas if he wants another beer.
Of course he does. He always does. I’ll get in early tomorrow. Before Billy. I
wish everyone would go home.
Do you think they’ll stop my trade out if I go into the red? What if they
don’t? How far could my PnL go down? I won’t lose the job. I never thought
about losing the job.
I wish everyone would go home.
The next day I lost two million dollars again. I was in the red now. Down
1.5. Chuck didn’t say anything. He just kept on standing behind me. Snoopy
came over once. He’d lost maybe $300K  by now.
“What do you think’s going to happen?”
“It will come back. It has to come back. Minus four point ﬁve percent
rates are impossible. Unsustainable. The banking system would collapse.”
“Yeah, you’re right. It’ll come back.”
We both did a little bit more.
That was Friday. I didn’t do much on the weekend. I didn’t go out. I texted
my ex-girlfriend. I can’t remember what I said to her.
What a pathetic thing to have done.
—On Monday I lost another 2.3 million dollars. That brought my overall loss to
nearly 8 million dollars. In less than a week. My yearly PnL was now 3.8
million dollars in the red.
In the afternoon, Chuck was oﬀ the desk for a bit, about half an hour.
When he came back he just put his hand on my shoulder and said, “That was
senior management. You know what it means.”
“Yeah. I know what it means.”
Chuck kept his hand on my shoulder when he said, “I know that you’ll
learn from this.”
It took me two days to close the trade out. By the end I was down 4.2.
And then the fucker came all the way back.
—
So what’s the lesson here? Is there a lesson? There’s always a lesson.
The lesson is that Snoopy was wrong. The price now and the price at the
end are not the only two things that matter. You must also be there at the end.
The trade was good. It was the right trade. Snoopy and JB didn’t get
stopped out and they both made a ton of money on it. That’s because it was a
good trade. JB didn’t even really know what the trade was, but he made a ton
of money on it while he ate toothpicks.
Having the right trade is not all that matters. It’s also important that you
survive.
Every trader has a pain threshold. Every trader has an amount they can
lose. You could have the best trade in the world, but if you hit your pain
threshold, it doesn’t matter, you’ll lose all your cash.
The lesson, then, is never hit your pain threshold. And since that trade, I
never have done. Every time you put a trade on, you must ask yourself: What
is the worst possible thing that can happen to this trade in between now and
me being right? Is that realistic? Am I lying to myself? Could it go a lot
more? Take your worst-case scenario, and double it.
Me, I know what I’m like. When a trade kicks my arse, I’m gonna do
more. If it kicks my arse more I will do more again. I don’t know why I’mlike that. Maybe because fuck you that’s why. All I know is if a trade’s gonna
fuck me then I’m gonna fuck the trade back and I’ll keep fucking it until I
win. But if I’m gonna do that, then sure as hell I had better be able to aﬀord
it. And sure as hell I had better be right in the end.
Two rules for life:
1. Be right in the end.
2. Be alive at the end.
Write them down.
And what else? Any other lessons?
Yeah, a couple. Number one, when Billy said you don’t fuck with a trade
without knowing the risks, I should have listened to him, and I didn’t. That’s
OK. We all make mistakes. Just don’t make them twice.
Number two, fuck the Frog. Three days into my losing streak it suddenly
occurred to me that a big chunk of my trade had come from the Frog. What
was the Frog doing? He must have had a fucking lot too, he must have been
getting his arse whooped. I pulled up the Frog’s position.
What did he have?
He had nothing. Of course he fucking had nothing. The fucking Frog had
had nothing for more than a week. Where the fuck had his position gone?
He’d given it to me. He’d dumped a load out on the market and he’d used me
as the dustbin for the rest that he couldn’t get rid of.
Cunt.
Fuck the Frog.
4
SO. WHAT DO YOU DO now? You are twenty-three and a half years old. You are
down 4.2 million dollars. What do you do?
Well what the fuck else can you do?
You work.
The mad thing about this next part of my life, the rest of 2010, is that I
can remember almost nothing about it, almost nothing at all.
There are a few things that I know did happen.
I started getting in early. Real early. I was getting in before Bill. I would
cycle in as the early summer sun was rising and as soon as I hit the trading
ﬂoor I would stick my little headset on and plug myself into the machine. No
one was in so I didn’t even used to get changed, and I would spend the ﬁrst
hour or two of the day reading and talking and trading in the gray Primark
hoody and busted Onitsuka Tigers that I used to wear to cycle into work.
I was riding the market like a hustler in that time, which, to be honest,
other than in that short period of my career, was never something that I was
very good at. I’m not a very sociable person. I’m not like Spengler. I can’t
know what everybody’s doing and when they are doing it. But at that point in
my life, I had to.
I started looking a lot at US dollars and the US economy. Since everyone
on the desk was trading their particular currency against the US dollar, we
didn’t really have anyone looking at US dollars speciﬁcally. We hired some
guy to do it, actually, but he wasn’t making any money, so I decided to take itfor myself. I wanted to know the US Federal Reserve as well as Billy knew
the Bank of England.
I scraped through every inch of my Swiss franc position. I’d been stopped
out of the position, but you can’t really stop an entire book of FX forwards.
We do like a hundred trades every day, so you end up with a huge amount of
money going in and out every single day in the future and the amount of
money is diﬀerent each day. You can’t really “stop out” of a position when
you have separate cashﬂows on a thousand diﬀerent days.
That meant that when I stopped out, I had a choice: which days do you
stop out, which days do you keep? I stopped out of all the least risky days. I
kept all the risky days. In eﬀect, that meant I kept a lot of the risk. Some may
argue that that is not really stopping out. For my part, I am not a moral
philosopher, I am a trader. Did you think I was gonna let that trade kick the
shit out of me and not make a little bit back on the comeback?
Nah, not me.
That’s all I can seem to remember of that part of my life. Eight fucking
months. Trades and positions, trades and positions. Little green lines on little
orange screens. Bleeps and numbers. Positions and trades. I dream about
them sometimes.
Who am I kidding, I dream about them every fucking night.
By the end of the year. I was back in the black. Positive four point ﬁve
million dollars.
Job fucking done.
—
There is one thing I remember though, from that time. It is a brief
conversation. Actually, more of a monologue. It happened very, very soon
after I lost that eight million dollars, and I remember it because it is probably
the most important conversation I have ever had in my life.
In the immediate aftermath of that huge loss, I became obsessed with
understanding why it was that I had lost that money, and whether and how I
would make it all back.One thing that I did, as part of that obsession, and as the obedient and
well-disciplined former LSE student that I was at the time, was I went back to
the books.
I started to read through all of my old textbooks to try to understand what
had happened. Why was the Swiss franc appreciating? Why had the SNB
acted as they had? Was the minus 4.5%  rate sustainable? Were the FX swap
prices really arbable? I stuﬀed my old textbooks into my work bag, and in the
afternoons when trading slowed down, into the evenings when everyone had
gone home, I would read through them while sitting on the desk.
That lasted for two days.
Billy did not accept the third day.
I was deep into a chapter on the mathematical nuances of forward interest-
rate parity when the book was slapped powerfully from between my hands,
straight into the bin at my feet. In its place was thrust a perfectly round, frosty
white-tipped, deep-red Liverpudlian face.
“What the fuck are you fucking doing you fuckin cunt!? How old are you
mate!?!”
Billy swore a lot, but he wasn’t usually so red when he did it. I had to think
for a moment because I hadn’t been in the mental space for taking personal
questions.
“Erm…I’m twenty-three.”
“So why the fuck are you in here reading fuckin books mate? Does this
look like fuckin Jackanory!?”
Bill was standing but bent ninety degrees at the waist like a maniac, and he
gestured wildly toward the trading ﬂoor with his left hand. I wasn’t sure if I
was supposed to look round, but I decided that it was probably best not to.
“No. It doesn’t.”
Bill sighed and placed both of his hands deep into his white hair then
wiped them all the way down his red face. He looked tired. He sat down.
“Listen, you’re not a fuckin kid anymore. I know you’ve lost a lot of fuckin
money. But you’re not gonna ﬁnd a penny of it there in them books. You
wanna know what’s happening in the world, you go take a fucking look at the
world. You wanna know what’s happening in the economy? It’s fucked. Andyou can see it everywhere you fucking go mate. Go take a walk down the high
street. See all the fucking shops closed down. See the fucking homeless
people under the fuckin bridge. Go look at the ads on the tube. Debt relief,
home equity release, debt relief. People losing their fucking homes just to pay
for the kids. Go home and ask your mum about her ﬁnancial situation. Ask
your friends. Ask your friends’ mums. The time for books is fucking over
mate. You’re not a fucking kid. You’re here now. You’re in the big leagues.
Look at the world with your fucking eyes.”
And that was it.
The most important thing I ever heard.
—
A few more things happened that year. Spengler went back to America. Billy
became the most proﬁtable trader in the bank for the third consecutive year.
It made sense for Spengler to go back to America. He’d been nearly three
years without his mum by that time. It was starting to get hard for him. He
left me with his Swedish and Norwegian trading books, as well as his
spreadsheet, which I’d continue to use for the rest of my career. The Danish
book went to Snoopy. We’d still never been to Scandinavia.
At the end of the year, to recognize the ungodly amounts of money he had
made for the bank, senior management made Billy MD. MD, or Managing
Director, is a big deal in the banking world, and the bigwigs probably didn’t
wanna give it to Billy, on account of the fact that he obviously hated them,
but they didn’t have much of a choice.
They announce the names of the new MDs on the loudspeaker, at the
beginning of December. They don’t say “these guys have all made MD,” they
just say “can this guy and this guy and this guy and this guy all come to the
oﬃce,” and everybody knows what it means.
We cheered and clapped when Billy’s name got called out, but he didn’t
say nothing. He just put his newspaper down and walked oﬀ.
He came back to the desk one hour later, holding some kind of heavy
glass object in his hand. He looked angry. He sat down in his seat anddropped it into the bin, which clanged and fell over, pouring a small pile of
used tissues onto my shoes.
I was about to say something, but Bill cut me oﬀ.
“Shut the fuck up Gal, you cockney twat.”
I waited for him to go to the toilet, and then I pulled the object out of the
bin. It was some kind of molded trophy—a globe made out of thousands of
tiny bubbles blown into the inside of a big block of glass. At the bottom, Bill’s
own name had been bubbled in:
“WILLIAM DOUGLAS ANTHONY GARY THOMAS—M ANAGING
DIRECTOR 2010”
I put the bin back into its upright position, and placed the trophy gently
inside.
—
Just after that, toward the end of the year, Chuck called me into his oﬃce. I
ﬁgured he was going to do some kind of “end-of-year-review.”
Since I’d made so much less that year than the previous year, I was pretty
disappointed with my own performance. But I’d clawed my way back from
more than four bucks in the red, so I ﬁgured the review wouldn’t be bad.
As soon as we sat down, Chuck looked me right in the face and
apologized.
“Listen, I just wanted to tell you that I’m really sorry. I’m really sorry. I
should have known earlier, but, honestly, I didn’t realize until now.”
I looked at Chuck. I had not the slightest idea what he was talking about.
His face was not registering a joke. His brow was furrowed, so I furrowed my
brow.
“There’s nothing I can do. There’s really nothing I can do. I’ve spoken to
HR and I’ve spoken to management. But they both say there’s nothing that
can be done. It’s a company-wide policy.”
I was starting to get a little worried now, and was running through a list in
my head of all the things this could possibly be. I was coming up blank.“Look, I’m really sorry that I can’t do anything about it. But I just want to
know, are you OK?”
I looked at Chuck and Chuck spoke with the cosmos. I tried to read his
eyes for some kind of extra information. I gave up.
“I’m sorry Chuck, but, could you tell me what this is about?”
Chuck spread his huge hands and laughed at me incredulously.
“I mean, of course Gary, of course it’s your salary. But, you know, there’s
nothing we can do. It’s a company-wide salary freeze!”
I slowly started to realize what was happening here. Chuck was worried
about me and my salary. His concern was, it seemed, on a basic humanitarian
level. My salary was £36,000. Plus the £400K  bonus, of course.
“I just want to know that you are OK.”
I stared for a while at Chuck’s face. I thought about what this all meant.
The guy was not joking. I sighed and looked down at my feet. I reached up
and knuckled my brow.
“To be honest Chuck, it’s pretty hard.”
I raised my face up from my hands. Chuck was nodding. It was obvious he
really cared.
Chuck placed his hand on my shoulder as I stared out the window.
“Don’t worry Gary, we’ll see what we can do.”
And so Chuck went and spoke to senior management, and they booked me
a trip round the world.
5
THUS, I SPENT THE JANUARY of 2011 in Sydney’s Summer, and Tokyo’s Winter,
and I received my bonus on the eighteenth ﬂoor of a huge hotel in Singapore,
overlooking the Marina Bay.
Rupert was happy to see me. He was living a great life over in Oz. He had
a beautiful apartment and a beautiful boat and a beautiful girlfriend, and he
was kind enough to line them up sequentially, so I could appreciate them one
at a time. We went on a cruise down to Botany Bay, during which Rupert
explained in great detail the costs of boat maintenance and I spent the entire
time putting on sunblock and then got burnt on the backs of my hands.
Tokyo was cold cold in January. A gray Lego city of bright lights and
strong winds. I met the prosaic Hisa Watanabe and the irrepressible Joey
Kanazawa. You’ll hear more of them later on.
There was no reason for me to go to Singapore. None at all. There wasn’t
even a STIRT desk out there. But Chuck had asked me one time where in the
world I’d like to go to, and I had just said to him “Singapore,” without really
knowing where it was. So Chuck added it to the tour. It was a bit like when I
told my nan I liked Lion bars, and then she got me them for Christmas every
year till she died.
Singapore was beautiful. I had friends from LSE there, so I spent the time
hanging out with them. And when Chuck called about my bonus on the
phone in my hotel room, I was sitting on a bed, high, high up in the sky.
Over the phone, Chuck told me how proud he was about the way I clawed
my way back from four bucks in the red. He said everyone had noticed. Notjust everyone on the desk, but everyone on the whole ﬂoor. I hadn’t realized.
Maybe he was just blowing smoke up my arse. He told me that he really
believed in me. That he thought I would be something big. That he really
wanted me to hit it the next year and he knew that I would. Then he gave me
£420,000.
I looked out over the marina. The sun was so bright it was blinding, and it
reﬂected oﬀ of everything. The water, the skyscrapers, the gardens, the little
lion that shoots water from its mouth.
It wasn’t my sun, it was another man’s sun. I wondered what all of it
meant.
OK, I thought, time to go home then. Time to be the best trader in the
world.
