Prologue“I WANT TO TELL YOU a story.”Caleb’s oversized face loomed over the table. Beneath it sat two ramenbowls. One empty, one full. A few stray wisps of steam ﬂoated upward,where they danced with his beaming white smile. From where I was sitting,slumped down low in my chair, the two chopsticks jutting upward from mybowl seemed to reach nearly up to his chin. His smile grew.“I used to know a really good trader. A really, really good trader. He usedto work for Deutsche Bank. Smart guy. Young. Just like you.”Caleb’s thick forearms were wrapped around his warm, empty bowl, andthey pushed down, hard, into the table. His hands were not far from my facenow, clasped tightly together. I’ve never forgotten how those ﬁngers looked.Thick, round and pink, like raw sausages. They looked ready to burst.“You know, he was a really good trader, this guy. Made a lot of money.Made a lot of money for himself, made a lot of money for Deutsche Bank.He had a good career ahead of him.”The hubbub of the restaurant ﬁlled the space around us. It wasn’t one ofthose rustic, hole-in-the-wall ramen joints that seem to birth themselves inthe back alleys of Japan’s big cities. This was a big, sprawling, corporaterestaurant on the sixth ﬂoor of a big, sprawling, corporate skyscraper. Loose-tied businessmen clinked beer glasses with their bosses, laughing at theirjokes. A few American bankers mixed in with the Japanese salaryman types,talking too much and too loudly. I wasn’t talking at all. I was watching thatoversized face ﬂoat through the darkness, across the table, toward me.“But you know, this guy, this young trader. Even though he was a goodtrader, he had one really serious problem. One fatal ﬂaw, you could say…Yousee, this guy, he thought he could walk away. He thought he could leave. Doyou know what I mean?”Caleb was a big guy. I’ve probably made that clear by now, but it wasn’tjust his face and his ﬁngers that were big. Everything about him seemedabout two sizes bigger than it should have been. His eyebrows were big, hischin was big. Somehow, the hair on his head was too big, too thick, and toodark. More than all of that, his smile was enormous. Huge, white and pearly.Right now it seemed to me to stretch wider than his face. Like the Tuesdaynight Cheshire cat of the ramen-ya, that smile seemed to shine through thedark of the room.“So this guy, he decided he was going to take the money and walk away.Leave the industry, you know? Nice idea. Have a family somewhere. Sweet.You see, the thing is, this guy though, he just didn’t really understand howthis industry works. Deutsche didn’t really want to see him leave. You know?”It didn’t take a genius to tell where this conversation was going, and I feltmy stomach starting to sink. I began to feel a bit sick, and I could taste orsmell something in my mouth. Was it blood? I sat deep in my chair and Iwatched. Caleb was still smiling. That smile seemed to grow bigger by theminute.“Anyway, Deutsche Bank went back and had a look, at all of his trades,you know? All of his chat history, all of his emails. He had been workingthere for a long time, you know, he’d done a lot of trades. And they managedto ﬁnd some stuﬀ in there that wasn’t good stuﬀ. Do you know what I’mtalking about? Stuﬀ he shouldn’t have done.”I could start to feel ﬁre in my legs now. In my feet. A hot, growing, itchyfeeling. A burning. But I didn’t move.“So you know, it wasn’t the right thing to do, but Deutsche actually tookthat trader to court for a few things. He hadn’t really done anything that bad,to be honest, but they managed to put something together. The case rumbledthrough the courts for years and years. Do you know what I mean? In and outof court, in and out of court. Real nightmare. That trader, great young trader,he never really got to leave, you see. Never got to have that family. Justcourtrooms. Best years of his life. Can you imagine that, Gary? Can youimagine? The case never went anywhere, but he lost all of his money anyway,in the end. Lawyers’ fees. All of his money, and much more besides. In theend, he was bankrupt. In the end, that guy lost everything.”The ﬁre was everywhere now, so was the sickness, and that blood taste. Istill didn’t move though. I looked up at his face.“Gary, are you listening to me? Do you understand what I’m saying here?”That big round face loomed closer still.“Gary. I like you. I think you’re a good person. But sometimes, bad thingshappen to good people. You are going to learn that. We can make life verydiﬃcult for you.”In that moment, a lot of memories came ﬂooding back. Memories thatcarried me thousands of miles. Away from Tokyo and back to Ilford, EastLondon. I was eighteen and sitting on a football, in a dead cul-de-sac next tothe railway, as Harry told me that his mum had cancer. I hadn’t known whatto say, at the time: “Do you wanna play football?” I remembered being stoodup against the wall of an alleyway on a dark night and watching Saravan as hethreatened to stab me. His hands were in his pockets. Did he have a knife? Ididn’t know. I remembered being chased down streets of terraced houses andjumping over garden fences and that time that Brathap got run over and theway that his body shook as it lay on the ground. I remembered all the stupidviolence and the blood and the nonsense so much nonsense of the kids on thestreet and all the promises that I’d made and the people I’d known. Iremembered sitting with Jamie on the top of the multistory carpark in thenighttime, watching the new skyscrapers go up around us in our city andtelling him that I was gonna be somebody, someday. Promising him that I’ddo it. He’d laughed at me, smoking into the moonlight. But he knew that Iwould though. So did I.No, I thought. It doesn’t end here.Not here in this cold, corporate restaurant. Not buried down by the weightof that smile.