Prologue
“I WANT TO TELL YOU a story.”
Caleb’s oversized face loomed over the table. Beneath it sat two ramen
bowls. One empty, one full. A few stray wisps of steam ﬂoated upward,
where they danced with his beaming white smile. From where I was sitting,
slumped down low in my chair, the two chopsticks jutting upward from my
bowl seemed to reach nearly up to his chin. His smile grew.
“I used to know a really good trader. A really, really good trader. He used
to work for Deutsche Bank. Smart guy. Young. Just like you.”
Caleb’s thick forearms were wrapped around his warm, empty bowl, and
they pushed down, hard, into the table. His hands were not far from my face
now, clasped tightly together. I’ve never forgotten how those ﬁngers looked.
Thick, round and pink, like raw sausages. They looked ready to burst.
“You know, he was a really good trader, this guy. Made a lot of money.
Made a lot of money for himself, made a lot of money for Deutsche Bank.
He had a good career ahead of him.”
The hubbub of the restaurant ﬁlled the space around us. It wasn’t one of
those rustic, hole-in-the-wall ramen joints that seem to birth themselves in
the back alleys of Japan’s big cities. This was a big, sprawling, corporate
restaurant on the sixth ﬂoor of a big, sprawling, corporate skyscraper. Loose-
tied businessmen clinked beer glasses with their bosses, laughing at their
jokes. A few American bankers mixed in with the Japanese salaryman types,
talking too much and too loudly. I wasn’t talking at all. I was watching that
oversized face ﬂoat through the darkness, across the table, toward me.“But you know, this guy, this young trader. Even though he was a good
trader, he had one really serious problem. One fatal ﬂaw, you could say…You
see, this guy, he thought he could walk away. He thought he could leave. Do
you know what I mean?”
Caleb was a big guy. I’ve probably made that clear by now, but it wasn’t
just his face and his ﬁngers that were big. Everything about him seemed
about two sizes bigger than it should have been. His eyebrows were big, his
chin was big. Somehow, the hair on his head was too big, too thick, and too
dark. More than all of that, his smile was enormous. Huge, white and pearly.
Right now it seemed to me to stretch wider than his face. Like the Tuesday
night Cheshire cat of the ramen-ya, that smile seemed to shine through the
dark of the room.
“So this guy, he decided he was going to take the money and walk away.
Leave the industry, you know? Nice idea. Have a family somewhere. Sweet.
You see, the thing is, this guy though, he just didn’t really understand how
this industry works. Deutsche didn’t really want to see him leave. You know?”
It didn’t take a genius to tell where this conversation was going, and I felt
my stomach starting to sink. I began to feel a bit sick, and I could taste or
smell something in my mouth. Was it blood? I sat deep in my chair and I
watched. Caleb was still smiling. That smile seemed to grow bigger by the
minute.
“Anyway, Deutsche Bank went back and had a look, at all of his trades,
you know? All of his chat history, all of his emails. He had been working
there for a long time, you know, he’d done a lot of trades. And they managed
to ﬁnd some stuﬀ in there that wasn’t good stuﬀ. Do you know what I’m
talking about? Stuﬀ he shouldn’t have done.”
I could start to feel ﬁre in my legs now. In my feet. A hot, growing, itchy
feeling. A burning. But I didn’t move.
“So you know, it wasn’t the right thing to do, but Deutsche actually took
that trader to court for a few things. He hadn’t really done anything that bad,
to be honest, but they managed to put something together. The case rumbled
through the courts for years and years. Do you know what I mean? In and out
of court, in and out of court. Real nightmare. That trader, great young trader,he never really got to leave, you see. Never got to have that family. Just
courtrooms. Best years of his life. Can you imagine that, Gary? Can you
imagine? The case never went anywhere, but he lost all of his money anyway,
in the end. Lawyers’ fees. All of his money, and much more besides. In the
end, he was bankrupt. In the end, that guy lost everything.”
The ﬁre was everywhere now, so was the sickness, and that blood taste. I
still didn’t move though. I looked up at his face.
“Gary, are you listening to me? Do you understand what I’m saying here?”
That big round face loomed closer still.
“Gary. I like you. I think you’re a good person. But sometimes, bad things
happen to good people. You are going to learn that. We can make life very
diﬃcult for you.”
In that moment, a lot of memories came ﬂooding back. Memories that
carried me thousands of miles. Away from Tokyo and back to Ilford, East
London. I was eighteen and sitting on a football, in a dead cul-de-sac next to
the railway, as Harry told me that his mum had cancer. I hadn’t known what
to say, at the time: “Do you wanna play football?” I remembered being stood
up against the wall of an alleyway on a dark night and watching Saravan as he
threatened to stab me. His hands were in his pockets. Did he have a knife? I
didn’t know. I remembered being chased down streets of terraced houses and
jumping over garden fences and that time that Brathap got run over and the
way that his body shook as it lay on the ground. I remembered all the stupid
violence and the blood and the nonsense so much nonsense of the kids on the
street and all the promises that I’d made and the people I’d known. I
remembered sitting with Jamie on the top of the multistory carpark in the
nighttime, watching the new skyscrapers go up around us in our city and
telling him that I was gonna be somebody, someday. Promising him that I’d
do it. He’d laughed at me, smoking into the moonlight. But he knew that I
would though. So did I.
No, I thought. It doesn’t end here.
Not here in this cold, corporate restaurant. Not buried down by the weight
of that smile.